website/docs/en/guide/migration/storybook.mdx, before:

# Migrate Storybook

If you are using the React framework of [Storybook 7.0](https://storybook.js.org/) and building with Webpack 5, you can replace the `@storybook/react-webpack5` with [@modern-js/storybook](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@modern-js/storybook), which supports Rspack as an out-of-the-box underlying build tool. Documentation can be referred to at [Modern.js - Using Storybook](https://modernjs.dev/en/guides/advanced-features/using-storybook.html).

## Update Dependencies

First, we need to add the `@modern-js/storybook` dependency and remove the `webpack` dependency.

```diff title=package.json
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@storybook/react-webpack5": "^7"
+   "@modern-js/storybook": "^2"
  }
}
```

## Configure Storybook

Refer to the following configuration, modify the `main.js` configuration of Storybook, and specify Rspack as the build tool:

```diff title=.storybook/main.js
export default {
-  framework: '@storybook/react-webpack5'
+  framework: {
+    name: '@modern-js/storybook',
+    options: {
+      bundler: 'rspack'
+    },
  },
```

## Example

Here is an example of building Storybook with Rspack based on @modern-js/storybook: [react-storybook](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/react-storybook).

## Limitations

Support for Storybook 7.0 is still experimental, and there are currently some limitations:

1. Support for frameworks other than React is not yet available.
2. Support for Next.js is not available, as Next.js has its own build solution.
3. If you find the build speed is very slow, check if the automatic documentation generation feature is enabled. For the highest performance, configure it to `react-docgen`. The difference between `react-docgen` and `react-docgen-typescript` is that the former is based on Babel, while the latter is based on TypeScript. The former has better performance, but weaker type inference capabilities. If using Rspack to build, only `react-docgen` is supported.

   ```js title=main.js
   export default {
     typescript: {
       reactDocgen: 'react-docgen',
     },
   };
   ```

We plan to provide a framework-agnostic builder based on [Rsbuild](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rsbuild) to integrate with the framework, refer to [rsbuild#1974](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rsbuild/issues/1974).

Commit message:

docs: change Storybook migration to storybook-rsbuild

website/docs/en/guide/migration/storybook.mdx, after:

# Migrating Storybook

If you are using React / Vue with [Storybook 8.0](https://storybook.js.org/) and building with webpack 5, you can replace the `@storybook/react-webpack5` build with [storybook-rsbuild](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/storybook-rsbuild), which is implemented based on Rsbuild and uses Rspack as the underlying build tool. It supports out-of-the-box use, and the documentation can be found at [storybook-rsbuild](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/storybook-rsbuild).

Next, we will take React as an example to introduce how to migrate a Storybook webpack 5 project. The migration steps for Vue projects are similar to React.

## Update Dependencies

First, add the [`storybook-react-rsbuild`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/storybook-react-rsbuild) dependency (for Vue projects, use [`storybook-vue3-rsbuild`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/storybook-vue3-rsbuild)) and replace the `@storybook/react-webpack5` dependency with `@rsbuild/core` and `@rsbuild/plugin-react` (for Vue projects, use `@rsbuild/plugin-vue`).

```diff title=package.json
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@storybook/react-webpack5": "^8"
+   "storybook-react-rsbuild": "latest",
+   "@rsbuild/core": "latest"
+   "@rsbuild/plugin-react": "latest",
  }
}
```

## Configure Rsbuild

Storybook Rsbuild will automatically load the Rsbuild configuration file from the working directory. Install [`@rsbuild/plugin-react`](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/framework/react) (for Vue projects, install and use [`@rsbuild/plugin-vue`](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/framework/vue3)).

```js
import { defineConfig } from '@rsbuild/core';
import { pluginReact } from '@rsbuild/plugin-react';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [pluginReact()],
});
```

## Update Storybook Configuration

Refer to the following configuration to modify the `main.js` configuration of Storybook, and specify `'storybook-react-rsbuild'` as the Storybook framework (for Vue projects, use `'storybook-vue3-rsbuild'`).

```diff title=.storybook/main.js
export default {
-  framework: '@storybook/react-webpack5'
+  framework: 'storybook-react-rsbuild',
  },
```

## Examples

The [rspack-contrib/storybook-rsbuild](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/storybook-rsbuild/tree/main/sandboxes) repository provides examples of Storybook for React / Vue projects.

## Limitations

Rspack is gradually improving full support for Storybook. Currently, there are some capabilities that are not supported, see [storybook-rsbuild - Roadmap](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/storybook-rsbuild#roadmap) for details.
