website/docs/en/guide/builtin-swc-loader.mdx, before:

import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '../../../components/ApiMeta';

# builtin:swc-loader

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.0" />

`builtin:swc-loader` is the Rust version of [`swc-loader`](https://github.com/swc-project/pkgs/tree/main/packages/swc-loader), aiming to deliver better performance. The Loader's [configuration](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation) is aligned with the JS version of `swc-loader` (SWC plugins will be provided in future releases and are currently not supported).

If you need to use `builtin:swc-loader` in your project, configure it as follows:

To transpile `ts` files:

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.ts$/,
        exclude: [/node_modules/],
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          sourceMap: true,
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: 'typescript',
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Or to transpile `jsx` files:

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            sourceMap: true,
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
              transform: {
                react: {
                  pragma: 'React.createElement',
                  pragmaFrag: 'React.Fragment',
                  throwIfNamespace: true,
                  development: false,
                  useBuiltins: false,
                },
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Additionally, you can directly refer to [`example-builtin-swc-loader`](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/builtin-swc-loader) for more usage guidelines.

## options

See [SWC configuration](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/swcrc).

### options.jsc.experimental.plugins

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.5.8" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

:::warning
The `wasm` plugin is deeply coupled with the version of `SWC`, you need to choose a wasm plugin that is compatible with the corresponding version of `SWC` in order to function normally.
you can see more compatible info about how to choose right wasm plugin version in [selecting-swc-core](https://swc.rs/docs/plugin/selecting-swc-core#088x--089x).
:::

Rspack supports load `wasm` plugin in `builtin:swc-loader`, you can specify the plugin name like

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              experimental: {
                plugins: [
                  [
                    '@swc/plugin-remove-console',
                    {
                      exclude: ['error'],
                    },
                  ],
                ],
              },
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

this is an [example](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/d4b8aaef9915ed0f540edbe504217c3d1afe8989/rspack/builtin-swc-loader/rspack.config.js#L45) of wasm plugin usage.

### options.rspackExperiments

<ApiMeta stability={Stability.Experimental} addedVersion="0.4.0" />

Experimental features provided by rspack.

### options.rspackExperiments.import

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Ported from [babel-plugin-import](https://github.com/umijs/babel-plugin-import), configurations are basically the same.

Function can't be used in configurations, such as `customName`, `customStyleName`, they will cause some performance overhead as these functions must be called from `Rust` , inspired by [modularize_imports](https://crates.io/crates/modularize_imports), some simple function can be replaced by template string instead. Therefore, the function type configuration such as `customName`, `customStyleName` can be passed in strings as templates to replace functions and improve performance.

For example:

```ts
import { MyButton as Btn } from 'foo';
```

Apply following configurations:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [{
               libraryName: 'foo',
               customName: 'foo/es/{{ member }}',
            }]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

`{{ member }}` will be replaced by the imported specifier:

```ts
import Btn from 'foo/es/MyButton';
```

Template `customName: 'foo/es/{{ member }}'` is the same as `` customName: (member) => `foo/es/${member}`  ``, but template string has no performance overhead of Node-API.

The template used here is [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com). There are some useful builtin helpers, Take the above import statement as an example:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [{
               libraryName: 'foo',
               customName: 'foo/es/{{ kebabCase member }}',
            }]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

Transformed to:

```ts
import Btn from 'foo/es/my-button';
```

In addition to `kebabCase`, there are `camelCase`, `snakeCase`, `upperCase` and `lowerCase` can be used as well.

You can check the document of [babel-plugin-import](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-import) for other configurations.

Taking the classic 4.x version of [ant-design](https://4x.ant.design/) as an example, we only need to configure it as follows:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [
              {
                libraryName: 'antd',
                style: '{{member}}/style/index.css',
            },
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

The above configuration will transform `import { Button } from 'antd'`; to:

```ts
import Button from 'antd/es/button';
import 'antd/es/button/style/index.css';
```

Then you can see the style file is automatically imported and applied on the page.

Of course, if you have already configured support for `less`, you can simply use the following configuration:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [
              {
                libraryName: 'antd',
                style: true,
            },
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

The above configuration will transform `import { Button } from 'antd';` to:

```ts
import Button from 'antd/es/button';
import 'antd/es/button/style';
```

### options.rspackExperiments.relay

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Converted `graphql` call expression to corresponding `require` call expression.

- **Type:**

```ts
export type RelayOptions =
  | undefined
  | boolean
  | {
      artifactDirectory?: string;
      language: 'javascript' | 'typescript' | 'flow'; // Default to 'javascript'
    };
```

- **Default:** `undefined`

When this configuration is set to `true`, Rspack will attempt to locate `relay.config.json`, `relay.config.js`, and `package.json` files under the [context](/config/context) directory in order, as detailed in the [relay-compiler](https://github.com/facebook/relay/tree/main/packages/relay-compiler) documentation. If none of these files are found, Rspack will use the default configuration.
If specific configuration is passed, Rspack will not attempt to locate any `relay` config file, but use the received configuration directly.

### options.rspackExperiments.emotion

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Using optimization for emotion in compile-time.

- **Type:**

```ts
type EmotionOptions =
  | boolean
  | {
      sourceMap?: boolean;
      autoLabel?: 'never' | 'dev-only' | 'always';
      labelFormat?: string;
      importMap?: {
        [packageName: string]: {
          [exportName: string]: {
            canonicalImport?: [string, string];
          };
        };
      };
    };
```

- **Default:** `false`

If you are using `emotion` in your project, and want functionality which is similar to [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin), you can enable `rspackExperiments.emotion` option, Rspack will use `swc_emotion` plugin to transpile your `emotion` code.

You can enable default options by specify `rspackExperiments.emotion: true`.

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            emotion: true
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

Each field name is the same with [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin), more detailed explanation (content below is from the official document of [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin)):

#### autoLabel

- **Type:** `'never' | 'dev-only' | 'always'`
- **Default:** `'dev-only'`

This option is used for:

- Automatically adds the label property to styles so that class names generated by css or styled include the name of the variable the result is assigned to.
- Please note that non word characters in the variable will be removed (Eg. `iconStyles$1` will become `iconStyles1`) because `$` is not valid[CSS ClassName Selector](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/448981/which-characters-are-valid-in-css-class-names-selectors#449000).

Each possible value for this option produces different output code:

- `'dev-only'` - we optimize the production code, so there are no labels added there, but at the same time we keep labels for development environments,
- `'always'` - we always add labels when possible,
- `'never'` - we disable this entirely and no labels are added.

#### labelFormat

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `"[local]"`

This option only works when `'autoLabel'` is set to `'dev-only'` or `'always'`. It allows you to define the format of the resulting `label`. The format is defined via string where variable parts are enclosed in square brackets `[]`. For example labelFormat: `"my-classname--[local]"`, where `'[local]'` will be replaced with the name of the variable the result is assigned to.

Allowed values:

- `'[local]'` - the name of the variable the result of the css or styled expression is assigned to.
- `'[filename]'` - name of the file (without extension) where css or styled expression is located.
- `'[dirname]'` - name of the directory containing the file where css or styled expression is located.

This format only affects the label property of the expression, meaning that the css prefix and hash will be prepended automatically.

#### sourceMap

- **Type:** `boolean`

Whether to inject source maps. By default, this will be disabled in production mode, and enabled in development mode.

#### importMap

- **Type:**

```ts
export type ImportMap =
  | undefined
  | {
      [packageName: string]: {
        [exportName: string]: {
          canonicalImport?: [string, string];
        };
      };
    };
```

- **Default:** `undefined`

This option allows you to tell Rspack what imports it should look at to determine what it should transform so if you re-export Emotion's exports, you can still use the Babel transforms

### options.rspackExperiments.styledComponents

<ApiMeta stability={Stability.Experimental} addedVersion="0.3.7" />

- **Type:**

```ts
type StyledComponentsOptions = {
  displayName?: boolean;
  ssr?: boolean;
  fileName?: boolean;
  meaninglessFileNames?: string[];
  namespace?: string;
  topLevelImportPaths?: string[];
  transpileTemplateLiterals?: boolean;
  minify?: boolean;
  pure?: boolean;
  cssProps?: boolean;
};
```

- **Default:** `{}`

Configure the compile-time support for [styled-components](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components). SWC's support for styled-components is essentially aligned with the official Babel plugin, so you can visit https://styled-components.com/docs/tooling#babel-plugin for more information.

Usually, you need to enable the JSX support of `builtin:swc-loader` to handle React components. The configuration may look like this:

```js
/** @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}*/
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx?$/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: 'ecmascript',
              jsx: true,
            },
          },
          rspackExperiments: {
            styledComponents: {
              displayName: true,
              ssr: true,
              fileName: true,
              meaninglessFileNames: ['index', 'styles'],
              namespace: 'rspack-test',
              topLevelImportPaths: [
                '@xstyled/styled-components',
                '@xstyled/styled-components/*',
              ],
              transpileTemplateLiterals: true,
              minify: true,
              pure: true,
              cssProps: true,
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Commit message:

feat(swc_plugin_import): legacy kebab/snake case for legacy babel-plugin-import compatibility (#6070)
feat(swc_plugin_import): legacy kebab/snake case

website/docs/en/guide/builtin-swc-loader.mdx, after:

import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '../../../components/ApiMeta';

# builtin:swc-loader

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.0" />

`builtin:swc-loader` is the Rust version of [`swc-loader`](https://github.com/swc-project/pkgs/tree/main/packages/swc-loader), aiming to deliver better performance. The Loader's [configuration](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation) is aligned with the JS version of `swc-loader` (SWC plugins will be provided in future releases and are currently not supported).

If you need to use `builtin:swc-loader` in your project, configure it as follows:

To transpile `ts` files:

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.ts$/,
        exclude: [/node_modules/],
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          sourceMap: true,
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: 'typescript',
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Or to transpile `jsx` files:

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            sourceMap: true,
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
              transform: {
                react: {
                  pragma: 'React.createElement',
                  pragmaFrag: 'React.Fragment',
                  throwIfNamespace: true,
                  development: false,
                  useBuiltins: false,
                },
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Additionally, you can directly refer to [`example-builtin-swc-loader`](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/builtin-swc-loader) for more usage guidelines.

## options

See [SWC configuration](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/swcrc).

### options.jsc.experimental.plugins

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.5.8" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

:::warning
The `wasm` plugin is deeply coupled with the version of `SWC`, you need to choose a wasm plugin that is compatible with the corresponding version of `SWC` in order to function normally.
you can see more compatible info about how to choose right wasm plugin version in [selecting-swc-core](https://swc.rs/docs/plugin/selecting-swc-core#088x--089x).
:::

Rspack supports load `wasm` plugin in `builtin:swc-loader`, you can specify the plugin name like

```js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              experimental: {
                plugins: [
                  [
                    '@swc/plugin-remove-console',
                    {
                      exclude: ['error'],
                    },
                  ],
                ],
              },
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

this is an [example](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/d4b8aaef9915ed0f540edbe504217c3d1afe8989/rspack/builtin-swc-loader/rspack.config.js#L45) of wasm plugin usage.

### options.rspackExperiments

<ApiMeta stability={Stability.Experimental} addedVersion="0.4.0" />

Experimental features provided by rspack.

### options.rspackExperiments.import

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Ported from [babel-plugin-import](https://github.com/umijs/babel-plugin-import), configurations are basically the same.

Function can't be used in configurations, such as `customName`, `customStyleName`, they will cause some performance overhead as these functions must be called from `Rust` , inspired by [modularize_imports](https://crates.io/crates/modularize_imports), some simple function can be replaced by template string instead. Therefore, the function type configuration such as `customName`, `customStyleName` can be passed in strings as templates to replace functions and improve performance.

For example:

```ts
import { MyButton as Btn } from 'foo';
```

Apply following configurations:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [{
               libraryName: 'foo',
               customName: 'foo/es/{{ member }}',
            }]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

`{{ member }}` will be replaced by the imported specifier:

```ts
import Btn from 'foo/es/MyButton';
```

Template `customName: 'foo/es/{{ member }}'` is the same as `` customName: (member) => `foo/es/${member}`  ``, but template string has no performance overhead of Node-API.

The template used here is [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com). There are some useful builtin helpers, Take the above import statement as an example:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [{
               libraryName: 'foo',
               customName: 'foo/es/{{ kebabCase member }}',
            }]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

Transformed to:

```ts
import Btn from 'foo/es/my-button';
```

In addition to `kebabCase`, there are `camelCase`, `snakeCase`, `upperCase`, `lowerCase` and `legacyKebabCase`/`legacySnakeCase` can be used as well.

The `legacyKebabCase`/`legacySnakeCase` works as babel-plugin-import versions before 1.13.7.

You can check the document of [babel-plugin-import](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-import) for other configurations.

Taking the classic 4.x version of [ant-design](https://4x.ant.design/) as an example, we only need to configure it as follows:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [
              {
                libraryName: 'antd',
                style: '{{member}}/style/index.css',
            },
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

The above configuration will transform `import { Button } from 'antd'`; to:

```ts
import Button from 'antd/es/button';
import 'antd/es/button/style/index.css';
```

Then you can see the style file is automatically imported and applied on the page.

Of course, if you have already configured support for `less`, you can simply use the following configuration:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            import: [
              {
                libraryName: 'antd',
                style: true,
            },
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

The above configuration will transform `import { Button } from 'antd';` to:

```ts
import Button from 'antd/es/button';
import 'antd/es/button/style';
```

### options.rspackExperiments.relay

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Converted `graphql` call expression to corresponding `require` call expression.

- **Type:**

```ts
export type RelayOptions =
  | undefined
  | boolean
  | {
      artifactDirectory?: string;
      language: 'javascript' | 'typescript' | 'flow'; // Default to 'javascript'
    };
```

- **Default:** `undefined`

When this configuration is set to `true`, Rspack will attempt to locate `relay.config.json`, `relay.config.js`, and `package.json` files under the [context](/config/context) directory in order, as detailed in the [relay-compiler](https://github.com/facebook/relay/tree/main/packages/relay-compiler) documentation. If none of these files are found, Rspack will use the default configuration.
If specific configuration is passed, Rspack will not attempt to locate any `relay` config file, but use the received configuration directly.

### options.rspackExperiments.emotion

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.4" stability={Stability.Experimental} />

Using optimization for emotion in compile-time.

- **Type:**

```ts
type EmotionOptions =
  | boolean
  | {
      sourceMap?: boolean;
      autoLabel?: 'never' | 'dev-only' | 'always';
      labelFormat?: string;
      importMap?: {
        [packageName: string]: {
          [exportName: string]: {
            canonicalImport?: [string, string];
          };
        };
      };
    };
```

- **Default:** `false`

If you are using `emotion` in your project, and want functionality which is similar to [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin), you can enable `rspackExperiments.emotion` option, Rspack will use `swc_emotion` plugin to transpile your `emotion` code.

You can enable default options by specify `rspackExperiments.emotion: true`.

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        use: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          ...
          rspackExperiments: {
            emotion: true
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
};
```

Each field name is the same with [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin), more detailed explanation (content below is from the official document of [@emotion/babel-plugin](https://emotion.sh/docs/@emotion/babel-plugin)):

#### autoLabel

- **Type:** `'never' | 'dev-only' | 'always'`
- **Default:** `'dev-only'`

This option is used for:

- Automatically adds the label property to styles so that class names generated by css or styled include the name of the variable the result is assigned to.
- Please note that non word characters in the variable will be removed (Eg. `iconStyles$1` will become `iconStyles1`) because `$` is not valid[CSS ClassName Selector](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/448981/which-characters-are-valid-in-css-class-names-selectors#449000).

Each possible value for this option produces different output code:

- `'dev-only'` - we optimize the production code, so there are no labels added there, but at the same time we keep labels for development environments,
- `'always'` - we always add labels when possible,
- `'never'` - we disable this entirely and no labels are added.

#### labelFormat

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `"[local]"`

This option only works when `'autoLabel'` is set to `'dev-only'` or `'always'`. It allows you to define the format of the resulting `label`. The format is defined via string where variable parts are enclosed in square brackets `[]`. For example labelFormat: `"my-classname--[local]"`, where `'[local]'` will be replaced with the name of the variable the result is assigned to.

Allowed values:

- `'[local]'` - the name of the variable the result of the css or styled expression is assigned to.
- `'[filename]'` - name of the file (without extension) where css or styled expression is located.
- `'[dirname]'` - name of the directory containing the file where css or styled expression is located.

This format only affects the label property of the expression, meaning that the css prefix and hash will be prepended automatically.

#### sourceMap

- **Type:** `boolean`

Whether to inject source maps. By default, this will be disabled in production mode, and enabled in development mode.

#### importMap

- **Type:**

```ts
export type ImportMap =
  | undefined
  | {
      [packageName: string]: {
        [exportName: string]: {
          canonicalImport?: [string, string];
        };
      };
    };
```

- **Default:** `undefined`

This option allows you to tell Rspack what imports it should look at to determine what it should transform so if you re-export Emotion's exports, you can still use the Babel transforms

### options.rspackExperiments.styledComponents

<ApiMeta stability={Stability.Experimental} addedVersion="0.3.7" />

- **Type:**

```ts
type StyledComponentsOptions = {
  displayName?: boolean;
  ssr?: boolean;
  fileName?: boolean;
  meaninglessFileNames?: string[];
  namespace?: string;
  topLevelImportPaths?: string[];
  transpileTemplateLiterals?: boolean;
  minify?: boolean;
  pure?: boolean;
  cssProps?: boolean;
};
```

- **Default:** `{}`

Configure the compile-time support for [styled-components](https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components). SWC's support for styled-components is essentially aligned with the official Babel plugin, so you can visit https://styled-components.com/docs/tooling#babel-plugin for more information.

Usually, you need to enable the JSX support of `builtin:swc-loader` to handle React components. The configuration may look like this:

```js
/** @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}*/
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx?$/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: 'ecmascript',
              jsx: true,
            },
          },
          rspackExperiments: {
            styledComponents: {
              displayName: true,
              ssr: true,
              fileName: true,
              meaninglessFileNames: ['index', 'styles'],
              namespace: 'rspack-test',
              topLevelImportPaths: [
                '@xstyled/styled-components',
                '@xstyled/styled-components/*',
              ],
              transpileTemplateLiterals: true,
              minify: true,
              pure: true,
              cssProps: true,
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```
