website/docs/en/guide/migrate-storybook.mdx, before:

# Migrate Storybook

If you're using [Storybook 7.0](https://storybook.js.org/) for React with Webpack5, it's possible to use Rspack using an experimental [builder](https://storybook.js.org/docs/react/builders/overview).

## Updating dependencies

First, we need to add `storybook-react-rspack` dependency, and uninstall the `@storybook/react-webpack5` dependency.

```diff title=package.json
{
  "dependencies": {
-   "@storybook/react-webpack5": "^7"
+   "storybook-react-rspack": "latest"
  }}
```

## Configure Storybook

Then, make the corresponding change to the Storybook `main.js` config:

```diff title=.storybook/main.js
export default {
-  framework: '@storybook/react-webpack5'
+  framework: 'storybook-react-rspack'
}
```

## Example

There is a example here [react-storybook](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/react-storybook)

## Limitations

Support for Storybook 7.0 is still experimental, and there are some limitations:

1. There is no support for non-React frameworks,
2. There is no support for NextJS, which is its own framework

There is also incomplete docgen support to automatically generate controls from components.
Rspack is currently compatible with the following `main.js` configuration, however this has known issues and is a work in progress.

```js
export default {
  typescript: {
    reactDocgen: 'react-docgen',
  },
};
```

Commit message:

docs(storybook): update to use @modern-js/storybook (#6123)

website/docs/en/guide/migrate-storybook.mdx, after:

# Migrating Storybook building to Rspack

If you are using the React framework of [Storybook 7.0](https://storybook.js.org/) and building with Webpack 5, you can replace the `@storybook/react-webpack5` with [@modern-js/storybook](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@modern-js/storybook), which supports Rspack as an out-of-the-box underlying build tool. Documentation can be referred to at [Modern.js - Using Storybook](https://modernjs.dev/en/guides/advanced-features/using-storybook.html).

## Update Dependencies

First, we need to add the `@modern-js/storybook` dependency and remove the `webpack` dependency.

```diff title=package.json
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@storybook/react-webpack5": "^7"
+   "@modern-js/storybook": "^2"
  }
}
```

## Configure Storybook

Refer to the following configuration, modify the `main.js` configuration of Storybook, and specify Rspack as the build tool:

```diff title=.storybook/main.js
export default {
-  framework: '@storybook/react-webpack5'
+  framework: {
+    name: '@modern-js/storybook',
+    options: {
+      bundler: 'rspack'
+    },
  },
```

## Example

Here is an example of building Storybook with Rspack based on @modern-js/storybook: [react-storybook](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/react-storybook).

## Limitations

Support for Storybook 7.0 is still experimental, and there are currently some limitations:

1. Support for frameworks other than React is not yet available.
2. Support for Next.js is not available, as Next.js has its own build solution.
3. If you find the build speed is very slow, check if the automatic documentation generation feature is enabled. For the highest performance, configure it to `react-docgen`. The difference between `react-docgen` and `react-docgen-typescript` is that the former is based on Babel, while the latter is based on TypeScript. The former has better performance, but weaker type inference capabilities. If using Rspack to build, only `react-docgen` is supported.

   ```js title=main.js
   export default {
     typescript: {
       reactDocgen: 'react-docgen',
     },
   };
   ```

We plan to provide a framework-agnostic builder based on [Rsbuild](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rsbuild) to integrate with the framework, refer to [rsbuild#1974](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rsbuild/issues/1974).
