website/docs/en/guide/quick-start.mdx, before:

import { Tabs, Tab, PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Quick start

Get up to speed quickly with a new Rspack based project.

---

## Creating project using scaffolding

### Using Rsbuild

You can scaffold a simple project setup using [Rsbuild](#rsbuild) directly. Invoke the following command:

<PackageManagerTabs command="create rsbuild@latest" />

Then follow the input prompts in your terminal.

### Using the Rspack CLI

You can scaffold a simple project setup using the Rspack CLI directly. Invoke the following command:

<PackageManagerTabs command="create rspack@latest" />

Then follow the input prompts in your terminal.

---

## Community Toolchain

There are already some Rspack-based toolchains in the community:

- If you want to build a web application, we recommend using [Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/).
- If you want to build a static site, you can try [Rspress](https://rspress.dev).
- If you want to analyze the build process and build artifacts, you can try [Rsdoctor](https://rsdoctor.dev).
- If you're looking for a full-stack React framework, you can try [Modern.js](https://modernjs.dev/en/).
- If you want a fast and production-ready setup that works in a monorepo, you can try [Nx](https://nx.dev).

### Rsbuild

**[Rsbuild](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rsbuild) is an Rspack-based build tool for the web.** The main goal of Rsbuild is to provide out-of-the-box build capabilities for Rspack users, allowing developers to start a web project with zero configuration.

Rsbuild integrates high-performance Rust-based tools from the community, including Rspack and SWC, to provide first-class build speed and development experience.

Learn more about Rsbuild in the [official documentation](https://rsbuild.dev/).

> If you need to migrate a Create React App (CRA) application to Rspack, you can follow the [CRA migration guide](/guide/migrate-from-cra) and use Rsbuild for a quick migration.

### Rspress

Rspress is a static site generator based on Rspack. It provides a complete solution for building static sites and includes the following features:

- 🚀 Fast Startup: Based on Rust-based build tool and markdown/mdx compiler, the build speed is extremely fast, bringing you the ultimate development experience.
- 📚 MDX Support: MDX is a powerful way to write content, allowing you to use React components in Markdown.
- 📦 Built-in Full Text Search: Automatically generates a full-text search index for you during building process, providing out-of-the-box full-text search capabilities.
- 🌈 Static Site Generation: In production, it automatically builds into static HTML files, which can be easily deployed anywhere.
- 🔌 Providing Plugin System: Providing a plugin system, you can customize the build process and theme according to your needs.

Learn more about Rspress in the [official documentation](https://rspress.dev).

### Modern.js

[Modern.js Framework](https://modernjs.dev/en/) is a Rspack-based progressive React framework that provides a complete solution for building web applications. It supports nested routes, server-side rendering, and provides out-of-the-box CSS solutions such as styled components and Tailwind CSS.

Learn more about Modern.js in the [official documentation](https://modernjs.dev/en/guides/get-started/introduction).

### Using Nx

The fastest way to get up to speed quickly and leverage Rspack and React in a production-ready setting is to use the dedicated [Rspack Nx plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nx/rspack). This gives you a pre-configured setup, integrating Rspack with React, TypeScript, ESLint, Jest, and Cypress for e2e testing.

Run the following command to set up a new Nx workspace with React and Rspack:

<Tabs values={[{ label: 'npm' }, { label: 'yarn' }, { label: 'pnpm' }]}>
  <Tab>

```sh
npx create-nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
yarn create nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack --pm=yarn
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
pnpm create nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack  --pm=pnpm
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The pre-configured setup is already ready to work with Rspack, TypeScript, TSX and React. In addition it also comes with Jest and Cypress for testing and ESLint for linting.

Once created you can simply `npm start` (or `pnpm start` or `yarn start`) to start the development server. You can also run `npm run build` (or `pnpm run build` or `yarn run build`) to build the application for production and similarly run `npm run test` (or `pnpm run test` or `yarn run test`) to run the unit tests.

You can learn more about Nx at [https://nx.dev](https://nx.dev).

## Manual installation

### Installation

We'll start by creating a project directory, generating an NPM `package.json`, and then installing `@rspack/cli` locally:

<Tabs values={[{ label: 'npm' }, { label: 'yarn' }, { label: 'pnpm' }]}>
  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
npm install -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
yarn add -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
pnpm install -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: update scaffolding part of quick start document (#6280)
* docs: update scaffolding part in quickstart document

* docs: fix link

* docs: add storybook

website/docs/en/guide/quick-start.mdx, after:

import { Tabs, Tab, PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Quick start

Get up to speed quickly with a new Rspack based project.

---

## Creating project using scaffolding

### Using Rsbuild

Rsbuild is a new generation build tool based on Rspack and developed by the Rspack team. It provides out-of-the-box build capabilities that can significantly improve the development experience and lower the barrier to get started.

We recommend using [Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/) to create new projects, simply run the following command:

<PackageManagerTabs command="create rsbuild@latest" />

> For more information, refer to [Rsbuild - Quick Start](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/start/quick-start).

### Using the Rspack CLI

Rspack CLI is a tool comparable to Webpack CLI, offering the basic `serve` and `build` commands.

Run the following command to create an Rspack CLI project:

<PackageManagerTabs command="create rspack@latest" />

Then follow the prompts in your terminal.

---

## Migrating from existing projects

If you need to migrate from an existing project to Rspack or Rsbuild, you can refer to the following guides:

- [Migrating from Webpack to Rspack](/guide/migrate-from-webpack)
- [Migrating from Webpack to Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/migration/webpack)
- [Migrating from Vue CLI to Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/migration/vue-cli)
- [Migrating from Create React App to Rsbuild](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/migration/cra)
- [Migrating from Storybook](/guide/migrate-storybook)

---

## Community toolchain

There are already some Rspack-based toolchains in the community:

- If you want to build a static site, you can try [Rspress](https://rspress.dev).
- If you want to analyze the build process and build artifacts, you can try [Rsdoctor](https://rsdoctor.dev).
- If you're looking for a full-stack React framework, you can try [Modern.js](https://modernjs.dev/en/).
- If you want a fast and production-ready setup that works in a monorepo, you can try [Nx](https://nx.dev).

### Rspress

Rspress is a static site generator based on Rspack. It provides a complete solution for building static sites and includes the following features:

- 🚀 Fast Startup: Based on Rust-based build tool and markdown/mdx compiler, the build speed is extremely fast, bringing you the ultimate development experience.
- 📚 MDX Support: MDX is a powerful way to write content, allowing you to use React components in Markdown.
- 📦 Built-in Full Text Search: Automatically generates a full-text search index for you during building process, providing out-of-the-box full-text search capabilities.
- 🌈 Static Site Generation: In production, it automatically builds into static HTML files, which can be easily deployed anywhere.
- 🔌 Providing Plugin System: Providing a plugin system, you can customize the build process and theme according to your needs.

Learn more about Rspress in the [official documentation](https://rspress.dev).

### Modern.js

[Modern.js Framework](https://modernjs.dev/en/) is a Rspack-based progressive React framework that provides a complete solution for building web applications. It supports nested routes, server-side rendering, and provides out-of-the-box CSS solutions such as styled components and Tailwind CSS.

Learn more about Modern.js in the [official documentation](https://modernjs.dev/en/guides/get-started/introduction).

### Using Nx

The fastest way to get up to speed quickly and leverage Rspack and React in a production-ready setting is to use the dedicated [Rspack Nx plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nx/rspack). This gives you a pre-configured setup, integrating Rspack with React, TypeScript, ESLint, Jest, and Cypress for e2e testing.

Run the following command to set up a new Nx workspace with React and Rspack:

<Tabs values={[{ label: 'npm' }, { label: 'yarn' }, { label: 'pnpm' }]}>
  <Tab>

```sh
npx create-nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
yarn create nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack --pm=yarn
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
pnpm create nx-workspace myrspackapp --preset=@nx/rspack  --pm=pnpm
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The pre-configured setup is already ready to work with Rspack, TypeScript, TSX and React. In addition it also comes with Jest and Cypress for testing and ESLint for linting.

Once created you can simply `npm start` (or `pnpm start` or `yarn start`) to start the development server. You can also run `npm run build` (or `pnpm run build` or `yarn run build`) to build the application for production and similarly run `npm run test` (or `pnpm run test` or `yarn run test`) to run the unit tests.

You can learn more about Nx at [https://nx.dev](https://nx.dev).

## Manual installation

### Installation

We'll start by creating a project directory, generating an NPM `package.json`, and then installing `@rspack/cli` locally:

<Tabs values={[{ label: 'npm' }, { label: 'yarn' }, { label: 'pnpm' }]}>
  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
npm install -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
yarn add -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab>

```sh
mkdir rspack-demo
cd rspack-demo
npm init -y
pnpm install -D @rspack/cli
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
