website/docs/en/guide/tree-shaking.mdx, before:

import WebpackLicense from '../../../components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking" />

# Tree shaking

Rspack supports tree shaking, which is a term commonly used within a JavaScript context to describe the removal of dead code.

It relies on the import and export statements to detect if code modules are exported and imported for use between JavaScript files.

Tree shaking will be enable when you set `mode` into `production`.

## Basic tree shaking

```js title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'development',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  output: {},
};

module.exports = config;
```

```js title=./src/index.js
import { cube } from './math.js';

function component() {
  const element = document.createElement('pre');

  element.innerHTML = ['Hello webpack!', '5 cubed is equal to ' + cube(5)].join(
    '\n\n'
  );

  return element;
}

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

```js title=./src/math.js
export function square(x) {
  return x * x;
}

export function cube(x) {
  return x * x * x;
}
```

Note that we did not import the `square` method from the **src/math.js** module. That function is what's known as "dead code",
meaning an unused export that should be dropped. Now let's build the project.
This will yield the following result:

```js
// ...skipping some trivial code
var __webpack_modules__ = {
  './src/index.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    var _mathJs = __webpack_require__('./src/math.js');
    function component() {
      const element = document.createElement('pre');
      element.innerHTML = [
        'Hello webpack!',
        '5 cubed is equal to ' + (0, _mathJs.cube)(5),
      ].join('\n\n');
      return element;
    }
    document.body.appendChild(component());
  },
  './src/math.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    function _export(target, all) {
      for (var name in all)
        Object.defineProperty(target, name, {
          enumerable: true,
          get: all[name],
        });
    }
    _export(exports, {
      square: function () {
        return square;
      },
      cube: function () {
        return cube;
      },
    });
    function square(x) {
      return x * x;
    }
    function cube(x) {
      return x * x * x;
    }
  },
};
// ...
```

As you can see, if we don't enable the treeShaking, all the code is kept as is, except wrapping with
some runtime code.

Now, we switch to production mode and rebuild the project. In order to make the output more readable, we also turn off the `minimize` option and switch the `moduleIds` to `named`. To compare with the later chapters, we turn off `optimization.sideEffects`.

```diff title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
+ optimization: {
+   sideEffects: false,
+   moduleIds: 'named',
+   minimize: false
+ }
};

module.exports = config;
```

Rebuilding the project, the `square` function got dropped.

## SideEffects

In a 100% ESM module world, identifying side effects is straightforward. However, we aren't there quite yet (In real project we using different kinds of format of package cjs, esm, umd and so on.), so in the mean time, it's necessary to provide hints to rspack's compiler on the "pureness" of your code.
The way this is accomplished is the "sideEffects" package.json property.

```json title=package.json
{
  "name": "your-project",
  "sideEffects": false
}
```

The sideEffects field supports the following values:

- `false` All files in this package have no side effects.
- `string` A glob matching files that includes side effects.
- `Array<string>` An array of globs matching files that include side effects.
- `undefined` This is the default value of `sideEffects` when you don't provide any value to `sideEffects` field of `package.json`, When the `undefined` is set, Rspack will try to analyse if the code has sideEffects when `optimization.sideEffects` is `true`
  (which is the default value when `mode` is `production`), or Rspack will treat all the modules in package has `sideEffect`

This time, we use a more complicated demo.

```js title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    moduleIds: 'named',
    minimize: false,
  },
};
module.exports = config;
```

```js title=index.js
import { multiply } from 'math';

console.log(multiply(2, 3));
```

```json title=node_modules/math/package.json
{
  "name": "math",
  "sideEffects": false
}
```

```js title=node_modules/math/index.js
export * from './add.js';
export * from './multiply.js';
export * from './subtract.js';
```

```js title=node_modules/math/subtract.js
export const subtract = (a, b) => a - b;
```

```js title=node_modules/math/multiply.js
export const multiply = (a, b) => a * b;
```

```js title=node_modules/math/add.js
const randomDate = Date.now();
export const addRandomDate = (a) => a + randomDate;
export const add = (a, b) => a + b;
```

The variable `randomDate` would still be needed because it includes a side effect that runs during the module's initialization.
However, because the package.json includes the `sideEffects` field and the value is `false`, and there are no export variable used in
**add.js**, so the whole module could be skipped, same for **subtract.js**

```js
//...
var __webpack_modules__ = {
  './node_modules/math/index.js': function (
    module,
    exports,
    __webpack_require__
  ) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    __webpack_require__.es(
      __webpack_require__('./node_modules/math/multiply.js'),
      exports
    );
  },
  './node_modules/math/multiply.js': function (
    module,
    exports,
    __webpack_require__
  ) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    Object.defineProperty(exports, 'multiply', {
      enumerable: true,
      get: function () {
        return multiply;
      },
    });
    const multiply = (a, b) => a * b;
  },
  './src/index.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    var _indexJs = __webpack_require__('./node_modules/math/index.js');
    console.log((0, _indexJs.multiply)(2, 3));
  },
};
// ...
```

### module.rule.sideEffects

You could override some modules sideEffects by using `module.rule.sideEffects`.
Why do we need such feature?
Considering if the author of package `math` forgot to add `sideEffects` field in package.json:

```diff title=node_modules/math/package.json
{
+ "name": "math"
- "name": "math",
- "sideEffects": false
}
```

Then Rspack will try to analyze the code safely and only mark the module is sideEffectFree when
all toplevel statements are sideEffectFree. As you can see, `math/index.js`, `math/subtract.js` and `math/multiply.js` is sideEffectFree
while `math/add.js` is not, because of `const randomDate = Date.now()`. When rebuilding the project,
you could see the diff:

```diff
//...
var __webpack_modules__ = {
"./node_modules/math/index.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
__webpack_require__.es(__webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/multiply.js"), exports);
+__webpack_require__.es(__webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/add.js"), exports);
},
"./node_modules/math/multiply.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
Object.defineProperty(exports, "multiply", {
    enumerable: true,
    get: function() {
        return multiply;
    }
});
const multiply = (a, b)=>a * b;
},
+"./node_modules/math/add.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
+ "use strict";
+ Date.now()
+},
"./src/index.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
var _indexJs = __webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/index.js");
console.log((0, _indexJs.multiply)(2, 3));
},

}
// ...
```

That's not what we expect, then we could use `module.rule.sideEffects`, because it has higher priority than `sideEffects` in package.json.
Since the initialization side effect is only meaningful when addRandomDate is utilized, we can safely override it. To do so, we can make the following modification to our rspack.config.js:

```diff title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    minimize: false,
    moduleIds: 'named'
  },
+  module: {
+    rules: [
+      {
+        test: /math\/add\.js/,
+        sideEffects: false
+      }
+    ]
+  }
};
module.exports = config;
```

Rebuilding the project, we could got the same result as before, the whole **math/add.js** module got dropped.

### Reexports optimization

After enabling SideEffects optimization, Rspack tries to optimize re-exports modules.

```js title=sdk.js
export { a } from './a.js';
export { b } from './b.js';
export { c } from './c.js';
// ...
```

```js title=index.js
import { a } from './sdk.js';
console.log(a);
```

If Rspack knows that module `sdk.js` has no side effects, Rspack will try to import `a` directly from `a.js` rather than imports the whole `sdk.js`.

In some non-standard libraries, there may be circular dependencies, for example, `a.js` imports members from `b.js` via `sdk.js`.

```js title=a.js
import { b } from './sdk.js';
export const a = b;
```

```js title=index.js
import { a } from './sdk.js';
console.log(a);
```

At this time, there is a circular dependency between `a.js` and `sdk.js`, which is not recommended to intentionally use circular dependencies like this. However, it can still be built successfully and run successfully. This is because Rspack will attempt to transform the above imports into:

```diff title=a.js
- import { b } from './sdk.js';
+ import { b } from './a.js';
export const a = b;
```

```diff title=index.js
- import { a } from './sdk.js'
+ import { a } from './a.js'
console.log(a);
```

After the transformation, the circular dependency is gone. However, if you try to turn off `optimization.providedExports` or `optimization.sideEffects`, the build will be successful, but errors due to circular dependencies will occur at runtime.

You can find above example [here](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/rspack/treeshaking-transform-imports).

Commit message:

docs: add re-exports optimization diagram

website/docs/en/guide/tree-shaking.mdx, after:

import WebpackLicense from '../../../components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking" />

# Tree shaking

Rspack supports tree shaking, which is a term commonly used within a JavaScript context to describe the removal of dead code.

It relies on the import and export statements to detect if code modules are exported and imported for use between JavaScript files.

Tree shaking will be enable when you set `mode` into `production`.

## Basic tree shaking

```js title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'development',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  output: {},
};

module.exports = config;
```

```js title=./src/index.js
import { cube } from './math.js';

function component() {
  const element = document.createElement('pre');

  element.innerHTML = ['Hello webpack!', '5 cubed is equal to ' + cube(5)].join(
    '\n\n'
  );

  return element;
}

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

```js title=./src/math.js
export function square(x) {
  return x * x;
}

export function cube(x) {
  return x * x * x;
}
```

Note that we did not import the `square` method from the **src/math.js** module. That function is what's known as "dead code",
meaning an unused export that should be dropped. Now let's build the project.
This will yield the following result:

```js
// ...skipping some trivial code
var __webpack_modules__ = {
  './src/index.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    var _mathJs = __webpack_require__('./src/math.js');
    function component() {
      const element = document.createElement('pre');
      element.innerHTML = [
        'Hello webpack!',
        '5 cubed is equal to ' + (0, _mathJs.cube)(5),
      ].join('\n\n');
      return element;
    }
    document.body.appendChild(component());
  },
  './src/math.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    function _export(target, all) {
      for (var name in all)
        Object.defineProperty(target, name, {
          enumerable: true,
          get: all[name],
        });
    }
    _export(exports, {
      square: function () {
        return square;
      },
      cube: function () {
        return cube;
      },
    });
    function square(x) {
      return x * x;
    }
    function cube(x) {
      return x * x * x;
    }
  },
};
// ...
```

As you can see, if we don't enable the treeShaking, all the code is kept as is, except wrapping with
some runtime code.

Now, we switch to production mode and rebuild the project. In order to make the output more readable, we also turn off the `minimize` option and switch the `moduleIds` to `named`. To compare with the later chapters, we turn off `optimization.sideEffects`.

```diff title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
+ optimization: {
+   sideEffects: false,
+   moduleIds: 'named',
+   minimize: false
+ }
};

module.exports = config;
```

Rebuilding the project, the `square` function got dropped.

## SideEffects

In a 100% ESM module world, identifying side effects is straightforward. However, we aren't there quite yet (In real project we using different kinds of format of package cjs, esm, umd and so on.), so in the mean time, it's necessary to provide hints to rspack's compiler on the "pureness" of your code.
The way this is accomplished is the "sideEffects" package.json property.

```json title=package.json
{
  "name": "your-project",
  "sideEffects": false
}
```

The sideEffects field supports the following values:

- `false` All files in this package have no side effects.
- `string` A glob matching files that includes side effects.
- `Array<string>` An array of globs matching files that include side effects.
- `undefined` This is the default value of `sideEffects` when you don't provide any value to `sideEffects` field of `package.json`, When the `undefined` is set, Rspack will try to analyse if the code has sideEffects when `optimization.sideEffects` is `true`
  (which is the default value when `mode` is `production`), or Rspack will treat all the modules in package has `sideEffect`

This time, we use a more complicated demo.

```js title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    moduleIds: 'named',
    minimize: false,
  },
};
module.exports = config;
```

```js title=index.js
import { multiply } from 'math';

console.log(multiply(2, 3));
```

```json title=node_modules/math/package.json
{
  "name": "math",
  "sideEffects": false
}
```

```js title=node_modules/math/index.js
export * from './add.js';
export * from './multiply.js';
export * from './subtract.js';
```

```js title=node_modules/math/subtract.js
export const subtract = (a, b) => a - b;
```

```js title=node_modules/math/multiply.js
export const multiply = (a, b) => a * b;
```

```js title=node_modules/math/add.js
const randomDate = Date.now();
export const addRandomDate = (a) => a + randomDate;
export const add = (a, b) => a + b;
```

The variable `randomDate` would still be needed because it includes a side effect that runs during the module's initialization.
However, because the package.json includes the `sideEffects` field and the value is `false`, and there are no export variable used in
**add.js**, so the whole module could be skipped, same for **subtract.js**

```js
//...
var __webpack_modules__ = {
  './node_modules/math/index.js': function (
    module,
    exports,
    __webpack_require__
  ) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    __webpack_require__.es(
      __webpack_require__('./node_modules/math/multiply.js'),
      exports
    );
  },
  './node_modules/math/multiply.js': function (
    module,
    exports,
    __webpack_require__
  ) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    Object.defineProperty(exports, 'multiply', {
      enumerable: true,
      get: function () {
        return multiply;
      },
    });
    const multiply = (a, b) => a * b;
  },
  './src/index.js': function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
    'use strict';
    Object.defineProperty(exports, '__esModule', {
      value: true,
    });
    var _indexJs = __webpack_require__('./node_modules/math/index.js');
    console.log((0, _indexJs.multiply)(2, 3));
  },
};
// ...
```

### module.rule.sideEffects

You could override some modules sideEffects by using `module.rule.sideEffects`.
Why do we need such feature?
Considering if the author of package `math` forgot to add `sideEffects` field in package.json:

```diff title=node_modules/math/package.json
{
+ "name": "math"
- "name": "math",
- "sideEffects": false
}
```

Then Rspack will try to analyze the code safely and only mark the module is sideEffectFree when
all toplevel statements are sideEffectFree. As you can see, `math/index.js`, `math/subtract.js` and `math/multiply.js` is sideEffectFree
while `math/add.js` is not, because of `const randomDate = Date.now()`. When rebuilding the project,
you could see the diff:

```diff
//...
var __webpack_modules__ = {
"./node_modules/math/index.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
__webpack_require__.es(__webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/multiply.js"), exports);
+__webpack_require__.es(__webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/add.js"), exports);
},
"./node_modules/math/multiply.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
Object.defineProperty(exports, "multiply", {
    enumerable: true,
    get: function() {
        return multiply;
    }
});
const multiply = (a, b)=>a * b;
},
+"./node_modules/math/add.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
+ "use strict";
+ Date.now()
+},
"./src/index.js": function (module, exports, __webpack_require__) {
"use strict";
Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", {
    value: true
});
var _indexJs = __webpack_require__("./node_modules/math/index.js");
console.log((0, _indexJs.multiply)(2, 3));
},

}
// ...
```

That's not what we expect, then we could use `module.rule.sideEffects`, because it has higher priority than `sideEffects` in package.json.
Since the initialization side effect is only meaningful when addRandomDate is utilized, we can safely override it. To do so, we can make the following modification to our rspack.config.js:

```diff title=rspack.config.js
/**
 * @type {import('@rspack/core').Configuration}
 */
const config = {
  mode: 'production',
  entry: {
    index: './src/index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    minimize: false,
    moduleIds: 'named'
  },
+  module: {
+    rules: [
+      {
+        test: /math\/add\.js/,
+        sideEffects: false
+      }
+    ]
+  }
};
module.exports = config;
```

Rebuilding the project, we could got the same result as before, the whole **math/add.js** module got dropped.

### Reexports optimization

After enabling SideEffects optimization, Rspack tries to optimize re-exports modules.

```js title=sdk.js
export { a } from './a.js';
export { b } from './b.js';
export { c } from './c.js';
// ...
```

```js title=index.js
import { a } from './sdk.js';
console.log(a);
```

If Rspack knows that module `sdk.js` has no side effects, Rspack will try to import `a` directly from `a.js` rather than imports the whole `sdk.js`.

In some non-standard libraries, there may be circular dependencies, for example, `a.js` imports members from `b.js` via `sdk.js`.

```js title=a.js
import { b } from './sdk.js';
export const a = b;
```

```js title=index.js
import { a } from './sdk.js';
console.log(a);
```

At this time, there is a circular dependency between `a.js` and `sdk.js`, which is not recommended to intentionally use circular dependencies like this. However, it can still be built successfully and run successfully. This is because Rspack will attempt to transform the above imports into:

```diff title=a.js
- import { b } from './sdk.js';
+ import { b } from './a.js';
export const a = b;
```

```diff title=index.js
- import { a } from './sdk.js'
+ import { a } from './a.js'
console.log(a);
```

After the transformation, the circular dependency is gone. However, if you try to turn off `optimization.providedExports` or `optimization.sideEffects`, the build will be successful, but errors due to circular dependencies will occur at runtime.

> You can find above example [here](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/rspack/treeshaking-transform-imports).

This diagram demonstrates the process of re-exports optimization:

![](https://rsfamily-design-resources.netlify.app/rspack/assets/rspack-reexports-optimization.png)
