website/docs/en/blog/announcing-0.6.mdx, before:

---
date: 2024-04-10 16:00:00
---

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Announcing Rspack v0.6

> April 10, 2024

## Major Feature Updates

### Built-in support for mini-css-extract-plugin

Now you can use `rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin` as a replacement for `mini-css-extract-plugin`.

This is very useful in some scenarios, for example when the built-in CSS parser cannot meet your needs, there are more customized CSS module names, or you want to use some loaders that depend on the output of css-loader, but still want to extract the CSS into a separate file.

For more details, please see [CssExtractRspackPlugin](plugins/rspack/css-extract-rspack-plugin.html#cssextractrspackplugin)

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
module.exports = {
  plugins: [new rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin()],
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/i,
        use: [rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin.loader, 'css-loader'],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Enable `experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking` by default

In rspack 0.1.0, basic tree shaking functionality was introduced. Due to the initial architecture being unstable, we employed a relatively simplistic approach to implement the basic version of tree shaking (only support unused export variables elimination). However, as rspack's capabilities improved, the architecture gradually stabilized.

The basic tree shaking functionality was insufficient to meet user needs, for example:

1. It couldn't handle circular references and couldn't provide enough optimization information for other build stages to achieve further optimization (such as mangleExports, concatenateModules, barrel exports optimization).
2. Some interoperability-related issues often occurred, such as worker-thread modules, Common Js modules, module federation, etc.

To address these issues, we decided to adopt a webpack-like approach, re-implementing the entire optimization process from the bottom up. In version 0.4.2, we introduced the `experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking` configuration to experimentally enable the new optimization algorithm.
After four months of bug fixing and optimization, the new tree shaking algorithm has become relatively stable. Therefore, we've decided to default-enable the new tree shaking algorithm in version 0.6.0.

## Breaking Changes

### Remove experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily

The `experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily` option has been enabled by default since v0.5.0 and was removed in v0.6.0.

### Remove compiler.build and compiler.rebuild

`compiler.build` and `compiler.rebuild` are not part of the Webpack public API and have now been removed.

### Remove builtins.css and introduce CSS related module.parser and module.generator options

Remove `builtins.css`, please replace it with the CSS-related [`module.parser`](/config/module.html#moduleparsercssauto) and [`module.generator`](/config/module.html#modulegeneratorcssauto) options that have been introduced.

Also, starting from v0.6.0, Rspack's experiments CSS will align with webpack's experiments CSS as a target, which means that, like webpack experiments CSS, it will no longer support [browsers that do not support CSS variables](https://caniuse.com/css-variables) in the future. Therefore, for those projects that need to use configurations not yet supported by experiments CSS, or need to support older browsers, we recommend migrating to [`rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/css-extract-rspack-plugin.html).

In v0.6.0, we introduced three new types of `module.generator` and `module.parser` options: `css/auto`, `css`, and `css/module`, which will only take effect when experiments.css is enabled.

The `module.parser` options for the `css`, `css/auto`, and `css/module` module types all have a `namedExports` property that is used to control whether to use ES module named exports for exporting contents of CSS. This will replace `builtins.css.namedExports`.

The `module.generator` options for `css/auto` and `css/module` include `exportsOnly`, `exportsConvention`, and `localIdentName`; while the generator options for `css` include `exportsOnly` and `exportsConvention`. `exportsOnly` will replace `builtins.css.modules.exportsOnly`, `exportsConvention` will replace `builtins.css.modules.localsConvention`, and `localIdentName` will replace `builtins.css.modules.localIdentName`.

In addition, there are some changes to the default values:

1. The value of `exportsConvention` has changed from `'asIs'`, `'camelCaseOnly'`, etc., to `'as-is'`, `'camel-case-only'`, etc., to maintain consistency with webpack experiments css.
2. With `namedExports: false`, it is now possible to use default exports, named exports, and namespace exports at the same time; previously, only the default export was supported:

   ```js
   // Before v0.6.0, only default export was supported
   import classes from './index.module.css';

   // Now, in addition to default export, it also supports:
   // Namespace exports
   import * as classes from './index.module.css';
   // Named exports
   import { class1, class2 } from './index.module.css';
   // Default and named exports used together
   import classes, { class1, class2 } from './index.module.css';
   ```

3. The default value of `namedExports` changed from `false` to `true`, meaning you'll have to use a namespace import (like `import * as classes from './style.css'`) or named import (like `import { class1 } from './style.css'`) by default, which will improve future compatibility with [native CSS modules](https://web.dev/articles/css-module-scripts). And this does not mean you have to migrate all imports at once; you can disable this behavior by setting `namedExports: false`, and since now `namedExports: false` also supports named export and namespace export, you can migrate these imports progressively.
4. The default value of `localIdentName` has changed from `'[path][name][ext]__[local]'` in development mode and `'[hash]'` in production mode to `'[uniqueName]-[id]-[local]'` in both development and production modes, which will slightly improve the gzip compression size of the CSS output.
5. The default value of `exportsOnly` in `target: 'node'` has changed from `false` to `true`.
6. The default rule type for CSS has changed from `css` to `css/auto`. `css/auto` will automatically process CSS files with `.module.` or `.modules.` as infixes as [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules), consistent with [`css-loader`'s `modules.auto: true`](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/css-loader?tab=readme-ov-file#auto), which will [simplify the writing rules for using less or sass with CSS Modules](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/16572).

### Upgrade swc to 0.90.x

Upgraded the Rust crate `swc_core` to `0.90.x`. This will affect users of the swc wasm plugin.

### Emit warnings when css order is inconsistent in multiple chunks

When the order of CSS in multiple chunks is inconsistent, a warning will be issued. For example, if you have two entries, `entryA` and `entryB`, where `entryA` imports `a.css` and then `b.css`, while `entryB` imports `b.css` and then `a.css`.
When splitChunks conditions are met, `a.css` and `b.css` will become a separate chunk. The order of `a.css` and `b.css` in this chunk cannot be guaranteed, resulting in the following warning.

```bash
WARNING in ⚠ chunk src_a_css-src_b_-5c8c53 [css-extract-rspack-plugin]
  │ Conflicting order. Following module has been added:
  │  * css ./css-loader/dist/cjs.js??ruleSet[1].rules[2].use[1]!./src/a.css
  │ despite it was not able to fulfill desired ordering with these modules:
  │  * css ./css-loader/dist/cjs.js??ruleSet[1].rules[2].use[1]!./src/b.css
  │   - couldn't fulfill desired order of chunk group(s) parent2
  │   - while fulfilling desired order of chunk group(s) parent1
```

If you are sure that their order inconsistency does not matter, you can ignore this error by configuring `ignoreWarnings`.

```js
module.exports = {
  ignoreWarnings: [/Conflicting order/],
};
```

## Migration Guide

### Apply rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin

If you have used `mini-css-extract-plugin` and webpack before, you can simply replace `mini-css-extract-plugin` by `rspack.CssExtractPlugin`.

```diff
+ const CssExtract = require('@rspack/core').CssExtractRspackPlugin;
- const CssExtract = require('mini-css-extract-plugin');
module.exports = {
  plugins: [new CssExtract()],
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/i,
        use: [CssExtract.loader, 'css-loader'],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Migrate builtins.css

1. Use `module.parser["css/auto"].namedExports` to replace `builtins.css.namedExports`.
2. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].exportsOnly` to replace `builtins.css.modules.exportsOnly`.
3. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].exportsConvention` to replace `builtins.css.modules.localsConvention`.
4. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].localIdentName` to replace `builtins.css.modules.localIdentName`.

The above occurrences of `"css/auto"` are the default module type for CSS, which can be modified to `"css"` or `"css/module"` as needed.

Add the following configuration to maintain the original default behavior of `builtins.css`, which can be modified as needed based on the following setup:

```diff
module.exports = {
   // ...
+  module: {
+    generator: {
+      "css/auto": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+        localIdentName: isProduction ? '[hash]' : '[path][name][ext]__[local]',
+      },
+      "css": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+      },
+      "css/module": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+        localIdentName: isProduction ? '[hash]' : '[path][name][ext]__[local]',
+      },
+    },
+    parser: {
+      "css/auto": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+      "css": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+      "css/module": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+    },
+  },
}
```

If it is necessary to configure some modules separately, you can use the [`rule.parser`](/config/module.html#ruleparser) and [`rule.generator`](/config/module.html#rulegenerator) options in `module.rules`.

### Migrate to compiler.run

`compiler.build` or `compiler.rebuild` have been deprecated. Please switch to `compiler.run` for both building and rebuilding.

### Upgrade the swc plugins

In version `0.6.0`, the Rust crate `swc_core` has been upgraded to `0.90.x`. Users of the swc wasm plugin need to ensure version consistency with `swc_core` being used, otherwise, it may lead to unforeseen issues.

Commit message:

docs: add css-extract example link

website/docs/en/blog/announcing-0.6.mdx, after:

---
date: 2024-04-10 16:00:00
---

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Announcing Rspack v0.6

> April 10, 2024

## Major Feature Updates

### Built-in support for mini-css-extract-plugin

Now you can use `rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin` as a replacement for `mini-css-extract-plugin`.

This is very useful in some scenarios, for example when the built-in CSS parser cannot meet your needs, there are more customized CSS module names, or you want to use some loaders that depend on the output of css-loader, but still want to extract the CSS into a separate file.

For more details, please see [CssExtractRspackPlugin](plugins/rspack/css-extract-rspack-plugin.html#cssextractrspackplugin).

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
module.exports = {
  plugins: [new rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin()],
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/i,
        use: [rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin.loader, 'css-loader'],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

There is an basic [project example](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/react-with-extract-css).

### Enable `experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking` by default

In rspack 0.1.0, basic tree shaking functionality was introduced. Due to the initial architecture being unstable, we employed a relatively simplistic approach to implement the basic version of tree shaking (only support unused export variables elimination). However, as rspack's capabilities improved, the architecture gradually stabilized.

The basic tree shaking functionality was insufficient to meet user needs, for example:

1. It couldn't handle circular references and couldn't provide enough optimization information for other build stages to achieve further optimization (such as mangleExports, concatenateModules, barrel exports optimization).
2. Some interoperability-related issues often occurred, such as worker-thread modules, Common Js modules, module federation, etc.

To address these issues, we decided to adopt a webpack-like approach, re-implementing the entire optimization process from the bottom up. In version 0.4.2, we introduced the `experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking` configuration to experimentally enable the new optimization algorithm.
After four months of bug fixing and optimization, the new tree shaking algorithm has become relatively stable. Therefore, we've decided to default-enable the new tree shaking algorithm in version 0.6.0.

## Breaking Changes

### Remove experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily

The `experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily` option has been enabled by default since v0.5.0 and was removed in v0.6.0.

### Remove compiler.build and compiler.rebuild

`compiler.build` and `compiler.rebuild` are not part of the Webpack public API and have now been removed.

### Remove builtins.css and introduce CSS related module.parser and module.generator options

Remove `builtins.css`, please replace it with the CSS-related [`module.parser`](/config/module.html#moduleparsercssauto) and [`module.generator`](/config/module.html#modulegeneratorcssauto) options that have been introduced.

Also, starting from v0.6.0, Rspack's experiments CSS will align with webpack's experiments CSS as a target, which means that, like webpack experiments CSS, it will no longer support [browsers that do not support CSS variables](https://caniuse.com/css-variables) in the future. Therefore, for those projects that need to use configurations not yet supported by experiments CSS, or need to support older browsers, we recommend migrating to [`rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/css-extract-rspack-plugin.html).

In v0.6.0, we introduced three new types of `module.generator` and `module.parser` options: `css/auto`, `css`, and `css/module`, which will only take effect when experiments.css is enabled.

The `module.parser` options for the `css`, `css/auto`, and `css/module` module types all have a `namedExports` property that is used to control whether to use ES module named exports for exporting contents of CSS. This will replace `builtins.css.namedExports`.

The `module.generator` options for `css/auto` and `css/module` include `exportsOnly`, `exportsConvention`, and `localIdentName`; while the generator options for `css` include `exportsOnly` and `exportsConvention`. `exportsOnly` will replace `builtins.css.modules.exportsOnly`, `exportsConvention` will replace `builtins.css.modules.localsConvention`, and `localIdentName` will replace `builtins.css.modules.localIdentName`.

In addition, there are some changes to the default values:

1. The value of `exportsConvention` has changed from `'asIs'`, `'camelCaseOnly'`, etc., to `'as-is'`, `'camel-case-only'`, etc., to maintain consistency with webpack experiments css.
2. With `namedExports: false`, it is now possible to use default exports, named exports, and namespace exports at the same time; previously, only the default export was supported:

   ```js
   // Before v0.6.0, only default export was supported
   import classes from './index.module.css';

   // Now, in addition to default export, it also supports:
   // Namespace exports
   import * as classes from './index.module.css';
   // Named exports
   import { class1, class2 } from './index.module.css';
   // Default and named exports used together
   import classes, { class1, class2 } from './index.module.css';
   ```

3. The default value of `namedExports` changed from `false` to `true`, meaning you'll have to use a namespace import (like `import * as classes from './style.css'`) or named import (like `import { class1 } from './style.css'`) by default, which will improve future compatibility with [native CSS modules](https://web.dev/articles/css-module-scripts). And this does not mean you have to migrate all imports at once; you can disable this behavior by setting `namedExports: false`, and since now `namedExports: false` also supports named export and namespace export, you can migrate these imports progressively.
4. The default value of `localIdentName` has changed from `'[path][name][ext]__[local]'` in development mode and `'[hash]'` in production mode to `'[uniqueName]-[id]-[local]'` in both development and production modes, which will slightly improve the gzip compression size of the CSS output.
5. The default value of `exportsOnly` in `target: 'node'` has changed from `false` to `true`.
6. The default rule type for CSS has changed from `css` to `css/auto`. `css/auto` will automatically process CSS files with `.module.` or `.modules.` as infixes as [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules), consistent with [`css-loader`'s `modules.auto: true`](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/css-loader?tab=readme-ov-file#auto), which will [simplify the writing rules for using less or sass with CSS Modules](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/16572).

### Upgrade swc to 0.90.x

Upgraded the Rust crate `swc_core` to `0.90.x`. This will affect users of the swc wasm plugin.

### Emit warnings when css order is inconsistent in multiple chunks

When the order of CSS in multiple chunks is inconsistent, a warning will be issued. For example, if you have two entries, `entryA` and `entryB`, where `entryA` imports `a.css` and then `b.css`, while `entryB` imports `b.css` and then `a.css`.
When splitChunks conditions are met, `a.css` and `b.css` will become a separate chunk. The order of `a.css` and `b.css` in this chunk cannot be guaranteed, resulting in the following warning.

```bash
WARNING in ⚠ chunk src_a_css-src_b_-5c8c53 [css-extract-rspack-plugin]
  │ Conflicting order. Following module has been added:
  │  * css ./css-loader/dist/cjs.js??ruleSet[1].rules[2].use[1]!./src/a.css
  │ despite it was not able to fulfill desired ordering with these modules:
  │  * css ./css-loader/dist/cjs.js??ruleSet[1].rules[2].use[1]!./src/b.css
  │   - couldn't fulfill desired order of chunk group(s) parent2
  │   - while fulfilling desired order of chunk group(s) parent1
```

If you are sure that their order inconsistency does not matter, you can ignore this error by configuring `ignoreWarnings`.

```js
module.exports = {
  ignoreWarnings: [/Conflicting order/],
};
```

## Migration Guide

### Apply rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin

If you have used `mini-css-extract-plugin` and webpack before, you can simply replace `mini-css-extract-plugin` by `rspack.CssExtractPlugin`.

```diff
+ const CssExtract = require('@rspack/core').CssExtractRspackPlugin;
- const CssExtract = require('mini-css-extract-plugin');
module.exports = {
  plugins: [new CssExtract()],
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/i,
        use: [CssExtract.loader, 'css-loader'],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Migrate builtins.css

1. Use `module.parser["css/auto"].namedExports` to replace `builtins.css.namedExports`.
2. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].exportsOnly` to replace `builtins.css.modules.exportsOnly`.
3. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].exportsConvention` to replace `builtins.css.modules.localsConvention`.
4. Use `module.generator["css/auto"].localIdentName` to replace `builtins.css.modules.localIdentName`.

The above occurrences of `"css/auto"` are the default module type for CSS, which can be modified to `"css"` or `"css/module"` as needed.

Add the following configuration to maintain the original default behavior of `builtins.css`, which can be modified as needed based on the following setup:

```diff
module.exports = {
   // ...
+  module: {
+    generator: {
+      "css/auto": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+        localIdentName: isProduction ? '[hash]' : '[path][name][ext]__[local]',
+      },
+      "css": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+      },
+      "css/module": {
+        exportsOnly: false,
+        exportsConvention: 'as-is',
+        localIdentName: isProduction ? '[hash]' : '[path][name][ext]__[local]',
+      },
+    },
+    parser: {
+      "css/auto": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+      "css": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+      "css/module": {
+        namedExport: false,
+      },
+    },
+  },
}
```

If it is necessary to configure some modules separately, you can use the [`rule.parser`](/config/module.html#ruleparser) and [`rule.generator`](/config/module.html#rulegenerator) options in `module.rules`.

### Migrate to compiler.run

`compiler.build` or `compiler.rebuild` have been deprecated. Please switch to `compiler.run` for both building and rebuilding.

### Upgrade the swc plugins

In version `0.6.0`, the Rust crate `swc_core` has been upgraded to `0.90.x`. Users of the swc wasm plugin need to ensure version consistency with `swc_core` being used, otherwise, it may lead to unforeseen issues.
