website/docs/en/blog/announcing-0-7.mdx, before:

---
date: 2024-05-21 16:00:00
---

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Announcing Rspack v0.7

> May 21, 2024

![](https://assets.rspack.dev/rspack/rspack-banner-v0-7.png)

## Major Feature Updates

### Lazy Compilation Support

## Breaking Changes

### Switch experiments.css to false by default

### Upgrade SWC to 0.91.x

Upgraded the Rust crate `swc_core` to `0.91.x`. This will affect users of the SWC Wasm plugin.

### Deprecating unstable JavaScript APIs

### Remove builtins.treeShaking (oldTreeShaking) and builtins

### Remove resolve.browserField

This configuration is shorthand for `resolve.aliasFields = ["browser"]`, and since Rspack already supports `resolve.aliasFields`, this configuration is no longer necessary.

### Remove experiments.newSplitChunks

This configuration is used to enable the new splitChunks implementation, and since Rspack already uses the new splitChunks implementation by default, this configuration is no longer needed.

### Remove exportsConvention for module type css

This configuration is used to control the naming convention of CSS module exports in experiments.css. It only has an effect on modules with the module type `css/module`, which have exports. For modules with the module type `css`, there are no exports, so this configuration is not needed.

## Migration Guide

### Enable experiments.css or use rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin

### Upgrade the SWC plugins

In version `0.7.0`, the Rust crate `swc_core` has been upgraded to `0.91.x`. Users of the swc wasm plugin need to ensure version consistency with `swc_core` being used, otherwise, it may lead to unforeseen issues.

For more details, please see this [document](https://swc.rs/docs/plugin/selecting-swc-core#091x) of swc。

### Replace resolve.browserField with resolve.aliasFields

If you previously configured `resolve.browserField`, you will need to replace it with `resolve.aliasFields`:

- `resolve.browserField = true` is replaced with `resolve.aliasFields = ["browser"]`
- `resolve.browserField = false` is replaced with `resolve.aliasFields = []`

### Remove generator.css.exportsConvention

If you previously configured `module.generator.css.exportsConvention` or `generator.exportsConvention` in `module.rule`, you only need to delete that configuration.

Commit message:

docs: remove snapshot (#6602)
doc: remove snapshot

website/docs/en/blog/announcing-0-7.mdx, after:

---
date: 2024-05-21 16:00:00
---

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# Announcing Rspack v0.7

> May 21, 2024

![](https://assets.rspack.dev/rspack/rspack-banner-v0-7.png)

## Major Feature Updates

### Lazy Compilation Support

## Breaking Changes

### Switch experiments.css to false by default

### Upgrade SWC to 0.91.x

Upgraded the Rust crate `swc_core` to `0.91.x`. This will affect users of the SWC Wasm plugin.

### Deprecating unstable JavaScript APIs

### Remove builtins.treeShaking (oldTreeShaking) and builtins

### Remove resolve.browserField

This configuration is shorthand for `resolve.aliasFields = ["browser"]`, and since Rspack already supports `resolve.aliasFields`, this configuration is no longer necessary.

### Remove experiments.newSplitChunks

This configuration is used to enable the new splitChunks implementation, and since Rspack already uses the new splitChunks implementation by default, this configuration is no longer needed.

### Remove snapshot

This configuration is used to control the snapshot strategy when using cache. Under Rspack's current incremental rebuild architecture, cache no longer relies on snapshot, so this configuration is no longer needed.

### Remove exportsConvention for module type css

This configuration is used to control the naming convention of CSS module exports in experiments.css. It only has an effect on modules with the module type `css/module`, which have exports. For modules with the module type `css`, there are no exports, so this configuration is not needed.

## Migration Guide

### Enable experiments.css or use rspack.CssExtractRspackPlugin

### Upgrade the SWC plugins

In version `0.7.0`, the Rust crate `swc_core` has been upgraded to `0.91.x`. Users of the swc wasm plugin need to ensure version consistency with `swc_core` being used, otherwise, it may lead to unforeseen issues.

For more details, please see this [document](https://swc.rs/docs/plugin/selecting-swc-core#091x) of swc。

### Replace resolve.browserField with resolve.aliasFields

If you previously configured `resolve.browserField`, you will need to replace it with `resolve.aliasFields`:

- `resolve.browserField = true` is replaced with `resolve.aliasFields = ["browser"]`
- `resolve.browserField = false` is replaced with `resolve.aliasFields = []`

### Remove generator.css.exportsConvention

If you previously configured `module.generator.css.exportsConvention` or `generator.exportsConvention` in `module.rule`, you only need to delete that configuration.
