website/docs/en/blog/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
---

# Rspack Blogs

Check here for the latest articles and release announcements about Rspack.

## [Deep Dive into Rspack Tree Shaking](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/17)

> April 17, 2024

This article primarily focuses on understanding the concept of Rspack & Webpack tree shaking.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.6](/blog/announcing-0-6)

> April 10, 2024

Rspack v0.6 is out, with built-in support for mini-css-extract-plugin and new tree-shaking enabled by default.

## [Webpack Chunk Graph Algorithm](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/15)

> January 12, 2024

This article introduces the chunk strategy of webpack. Through this article, you can understand when a chunk will be generated in the code and how to reduce the chunk size, etc.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.5](/blog/announcing-0-5)

> January 09, 2024

Rspack v0.5 is out, supporting Module Federation and removing the default SWC transformation.

## [Module Federation added to Rspack](/blog/module-federation-added-to-rspack)

> January 09, 2024

The latest Rspack 0.5.0 introduces the highly anticipated Module Federation, which is detailed in this article.

## [Webpack CSS Order Issue](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/12)

> November 29, 2023

This article shows how the CSS order problem occurs in webpack and how to solve it.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.4](/blog/announcing-0-4)

> November 02, 2023

Rspack v0.5 is out, removing support for some builtin features.

## [Deep Dive into Top-level await](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/9)

> October 26, 2023

In this article, we will take a closer look at aspects such as the specification, toolchain support, webpack runtime, and profiling of top level await.

## [Design Trade-offs in Bundler](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/1)

> August 30, 2023

This article explains why we decided to develop Rspack and what trade-offs we made during the design process.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.3](/blog/announcing-0-3)

> August 24, 2023

Rspack v0.3 is out, adding support for web workers and the builtin:swc-loader.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.2](/blog/announcing-0-2)

> June 02, 2023

Rspack v0.2 is out, introducing many new features, such as support for realContentHash, DataURI, and the ESM format, and more.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.1](/blog/announcing-0-1)

> March 06, 2023

Rspack has officially been released!

Commit message:

docs: announcing 0.7 (#6562)
* docs: announcing 0.7

---------

Co-authored-by: ahabhgk <ahabhgk@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: neverland <chenjiahan.jait@bytedance.com>
Co-authored-by: jinrui <jerrykingxyz@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: jserfeng <1114550440@qq.com>

website/docs/en/blog/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
---

# Rspack Blogs

Check here for the latest articles and release announcements about Rspack.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.7](/blog/announcing-0-7)

> May 28, 2024

Rspack v0.7 has been released, featuring support for lazy compilation, which can significantly improve the dev startup performance of large applications. It also introduces a brand-new css-module-lexer, increasing CSS bundling speed by 4 times.

## [Deep Dive into Rspack Tree Shaking](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/17)

> April 17, 2024

This article primarily focuses on understanding the concept of Rspack & Webpack tree shaking.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.6](/blog/announcing-0-6)

> April 10, 2024

Rspack v0.6 is out, with built-in support for mini-css-extract-plugin and new tree-shaking enabled by default.

## [Webpack Chunk Graph Algorithm](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/15)

> January 12, 2024

This article introduces the chunk strategy of webpack. Through this article, you can understand when a chunk will be generated in the code and how to reduce the chunk size, etc.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.5](/blog/announcing-0-5)

> January 09, 2024

Rspack v0.5 is out, supporting Module Federation and removing the default SWC transformation.

## [Module Federation added to Rspack](/blog/module-federation-added-to-rspack)

> January 09, 2024

The latest Rspack 0.5.0 introduces the highly anticipated Module Federation, which is detailed in this article.

## [Webpack CSS Order Issue](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/12)

> November 29, 2023

This article shows how the CSS order problem occurs in webpack and how to solve it.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.4](/blog/announcing-0-4)

> November 02, 2023

Rspack v0.5 is out, removing support for some builtin features.

## [Deep Dive into Top-level await](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/9)

> October 26, 2023

In this article, we will take a closer look at aspects such as the specification, toolchain support, webpack runtime, and profiling of top level await.

## [Design Trade-offs in Bundler](https://github.com/orgs/web-infra-dev/discussions/1)

> August 30, 2023

This article explains why we decided to develop Rspack and what trade-offs we made during the design process.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.3](/blog/announcing-0-3)

> August 24, 2023

Rspack v0.3 is out, adding support for web workers and the builtin:swc-loader.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.2](/blog/announcing-0-2)

> June 02, 2023

Rspack v0.2 is out, introducing many new features, such as support for realContentHash, DataURI, and the ESM format, and more.

## [Announcing Rspack v0.1](/blog/announcing-0-1)

> March 06, 2023

Rspack has officially been released!
