website/docs/en/config/experiments.mdx, before:

import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '../../../components/ApiMeta';

# Experiments

Enable and try out some experimental features.

- **Type:** `object`

## experiments.incrementalRebuild

<ApiMeta
  deprecatedVersion="0.4.0"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

Enable incremental rebuild. `true` will try to reuse the results of the last build when rebuild to improve build speed, supports configuration of different stages, the default is enabled.

0.5 removed this options and internally enabled this feature.

- **Type:** `boolean | { make?: boolean, emitAsset?: boolean }`
- **Default:** `true`

## experiments.outputModule

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Once enabled, Rspack will output ECMAScript module syntax whenever possible. For instance, `import()` to load chunks, ESM exports to expose chunk data, among others.

```js
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    outputModule: true,
  },
};
```

## experiments.css

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Once enabled, Rspack will enable native CSS support, and CSS related parser and generator options.

- [`module.parser["css/auto"]`](/config/module#moduleparsercssauto)
- [`module.parser.css`](/config/module#moduleparsercss)
- [`module.parser["css/module"]`](/config/module#moduleparsercssmodule)
- [`module.generator["css/auto"]`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcssauto)
- [`module.generator.css`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcss)
- [`module.generator["css/module"]`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcssmodule)

:::warning
Note that if you're using `style-loader` and `css-loader`, you should disable this option because `style-loader` and `css-loader` will conflict with native CSS.
:::

## experiments.topLevelAwait

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.8" />

Enable support for [top level await](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await), `top level await` can only be used in modules with [ModuleType](/config/module#ruletype) is `javascript/esm`.

Enabled by default and can be turned off with this configuration.

## experiments.lazyCompilation

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.7.0" />

- **Type:**

```ts
type LazyCompilationOptions =
  | boolean
  | {
      entries?: boolean;

      imports?: boolean;

      test?: RegExp | ((m: Module) => boolean);
    };
```

- **Default:** `false`

Enable lazy compilation, which can greatly improve the build performance of multi-entry projects or large projects. For example, if you have twenty entry points, only the accessed entry points will be built. Or if there are many `import()` statements in the project, each module pointed to by `import()` will only be built when it is actually accessed.

If set to true, lazy compilation will be applied by default to both entry modules and modules pointed to by `import()`. You can decide whether it applies only to entries or only to `import()` through a configuration object. The `entries` option determines whether it applies to entries, while the `import()` option determines whether it applies to `import()`.

In addition, you can also configure a `test` parameter for more fine-grained control over which modules are lazily compiled. The `test` parameter can be a regular expression that matches only those modules that should be lazily compiled. It can also be a function where the input is of type 'Module' and returns a boolean value indicating whether it meets the criteria for lazy compilation logic.

## experiments.rspackFuture

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.2" />

- **Type:** `object`

- **Default:** See options down below for details

Used to control whether to enable Rspack future default options, check out the details [here](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/pull/4107).

### experiments.rspackFuture.disableTransformByDefault

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.3.5"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.3.5
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.4.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.5.0
- **Description:**

  This feature primarily addresses three categories of problems: [builtins](/config/builtins) code transformation features, [target](/config/target), and custom [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype).

  1. **Removal of support for some [builtins](/config/builtins) features:**

  - [builtins.relay](/config/builtins#builtinsrelay)
  - [builtins.react](/config/builtins#builtinsreact)
  - [builtins.emotion](/config/builtins#builtinsemotion)
  - [builtins.pluginImport](/config/builtins#builtinspluginimport)
  - [builtins.decorator](/config/builtins#builtinsdecorator)
  - [builtins.presetEnv](/config/builtins#builtinspresetenv)

  These configuration items should apply to the selected corresponding modules. Using `builtins.(relay|react|emotion|pluginImport|decorator)` is equivalent to enabling them globally. This approach is not recommended, so it will be deprecated.

  After enabling `disableTransformByDefault`, the aforementioned configuration items will become invalid. For a migration guide, refer to [builtin:swc-loader/options.rspackExperiments](/guide/features/loader#optionsrspackexperiments).

  For instance, if we want the `emotion` transformation to apply to all `jsx` files:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.jsx$/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "ecmascript",
                jsx: true
              }
            },
            rspackExperiments: {
              emotion: true // The same as `builtins`
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

  For the decorator configuration, you can find and replace in the SWC code, such as [legacyDecorator](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctransformlegacydecorator), [decoratorMetadata](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctransformlegacydecorator).

  2. **[target](/config/target) will not downgrade user-side code**

  In **previous** versions, we typically set `target: ["web", "es5"]` to produce web-compatible and downgraded code. Now, when the `disableTransformByDefault` configuration item is enabled, the `target` will only be used to control runtime code (except for user-written code, Rspack generated code within node_modules, like chunk loading, etc.)

  This aligns with webpack's plugin-based design philosophy. You can migrate using `builtin:swc-loader`'s [`env`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#env) or [`target`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctarget), and precisely control the modules that need to be transpiled:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.[cm]?js$/,
          exclude: /node_modules/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "ecmascript"
              },
              target: "es5" // Notice: `jsc.target` and `env` cannot be set at the same time.
            },
            env: { //  Notice: `jsc.target` and `env` cannot be set at the same time.
              targets: "chrome >= 48"
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

  **Note**: When `disableTransformByDefault` is not enabled, the rspack's built-in transpiler will transpile all content under `node_modules`. Therefore, after enabling `disableTransformByDefault`, with `builtin:swc-loader` combined with `exclude: /node_modules/`, ensure the code in `node_modules` has been downgraded; otherwise, compatibility issues may arise.

  3. **Removed non-webpack compatible [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype)**

  These types have been removed:

  - `"typescript"`
  - `"jsx"`
  - `"tsx"`

  For JS-related types, only the following will be retained:

  - `"javascript/auto"`
  - `"javascript/esm"`
  - `"javascript/dynamic"`

  With `disableTransformByDefault` enabled, Rspack will only support input compliant with web standards, aligning with webpack's design philosophy.

  After discussions with webpack, both webpack and Rspack will offer more out-of-the-box configurations to support non-standard inputs like TypeScript.

  Since files with the extensions `jsx`, `tsx`, and `ts` are implicitly set for transpilation, an error will be prompted when `disableTransformByDefault` is enabled. You can migrate like this:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.ts$/,
          exclude: /node_modules/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "typescript"
              }
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
      {
        test: /\.tsx$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: "typescript",
              tsx: true
            }
          }
        }
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: "ecmascript",
              jsx: true
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

### experiments.rspackFuture.newResolver

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.3.7"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.3.7
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.4.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.5.0

This feature enables the new resolver implementation.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newResolver: true,
    },
  },
};
```

The new resolver also supports [tsconfig project references](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html) defined in [tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin](https://github.com/dividab/tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin#references-_string-defaultundefined). See [resolve API](/config/resolve#resolvetsconfig) for details.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    tsconfig: {
      configFile: path.resolve(__dirname, './tsconfig.json'),
      references: 'auto'
    },
  }
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newResolver: true
    }
  }
}
```

### experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.4.2" />

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.4.2
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.6.0

This feature enables the new treeshaking implementation the same as webpack, which would generate more efficient and smaller code

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newTreeshaking: true,
    },
  },
};
```

### experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.4.5"
  removedVersion="0.6.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.4.5
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.5.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.6.0

When this feature is not enabled, `options.entry` can still make valid changes after `compiler.hooks.afterEnvironment` is called.

With this feature turned on, `options.entry` will no longer make valid changes after `compiler.hooks.afterEnvironment` call. This behavior is consistent with Webpack, so this configuration is unaffected for users developing applications in Rspack, but should be noted by developers of Rspack plugins or upper-level frameworks.

A common scenario is to [prepend entries after the Compiler has been created](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-dev-server/blob/540c43852ea33f9cb18820e1cef05d5ddb86cc3e/lib/Server.js#L719-L783):

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
const compiler = rspack(options);

function prependEntry(compiler, additionalEntry) {
  for (const key in compiler.options.entry) {
    compiler.options.entry[key].import = [
      additionalEntry,
      ...(compiler.options.entry[key].import || []),
    ];
  }
}

prependEntry(compiler, 'dev-client.js');
```

Modifications will not take effect when this configuration is turned on, and you need to make the following changes:

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
const compiler = rspack(options);

function prependEntry(compiler, additionalEntry) {
  new compiler.webpack.EntryPlugin(compiler.context, additionalEntry, {
    name: undefined,
  }).apply(compiler);
}

prependEntry(compiler, 'dev-client.js');
```

Commit message:

chore: remove old treeshaking (#6549)
* chore: remove old treeshaking

* chore: remove builtin option

website/docs/en/config/experiments.mdx, after:

import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '../../../components/ApiMeta';

# Experiments

Enable and try out some experimental features.

- **Type:** `object`

## experiments.incrementalRebuild

<ApiMeta
  deprecatedVersion="0.4.0"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

Enable incremental rebuild. `true` will try to reuse the results of the last build when rebuild to improve build speed, supports configuration of different stages, the default is enabled.

0.5 removed this options and internally enabled this feature.

- **Type:** `boolean | { make?: boolean, emitAsset?: boolean }`
- **Default:** `true`

## experiments.outputModule

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Once enabled, Rspack will output ECMAScript module syntax whenever possible. For instance, `import()` to load chunks, ESM exports to expose chunk data, among others.

```js
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    outputModule: true,
  },
};
```

## experiments.css

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

Once enabled, Rspack will enable native CSS support, and CSS related parser and generator options.

- [`module.parser["css/auto"]`](/config/module#moduleparsercssauto)
- [`module.parser.css`](/config/module#moduleparsercss)
- [`module.parser["css/module"]`](/config/module#moduleparsercssmodule)
- [`module.generator["css/auto"]`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcssauto)
- [`module.generator.css`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcss)
- [`module.generator["css/module"]`](/config/module#modulegeneratorcssmodule)

:::warning
Note that if you're using `style-loader` and `css-loader`, you should disable this option because `style-loader` and `css-loader` will conflict with native CSS.
:::

## experiments.topLevelAwait

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.8" />

Enable support for [top level await](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await), `top level await` can only be used in modules with [ModuleType](/config/module#ruletype) is `javascript/esm`.

Enabled by default and can be turned off with this configuration.

## experiments.lazyCompilation

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.7.0" />

- **Type:**

```ts
type LazyCompilationOptions =
  | boolean
  | {
      entries?: boolean;

      imports?: boolean;

      test?: RegExp | ((m: Module) => boolean);
    };
```

- **Default:** `false`

Enable lazy compilation, which can greatly improve the build performance of multi-entry projects or large projects. For example, if you have twenty entry points, only the accessed entry points will be built. Or if there are many `import()` statements in the project, each module pointed to by `import()` will only be built when it is actually accessed.

If set to true, lazy compilation will be applied by default to both entry modules and modules pointed to by `import()`. You can decide whether it applies only to entries or only to `import()` through a configuration object. The `entries` option determines whether it applies to entries, while the `import()` option determines whether it applies to `import()`.

In addition, you can also configure a `test` parameter for more fine-grained control over which modules are lazily compiled. The `test` parameter can be a regular expression that matches only those modules that should be lazily compiled. It can also be a function where the input is of type 'Module' and returns a boolean value indicating whether it meets the criteria for lazy compilation logic.

## experiments.rspackFuture

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.3.2" />

- **Type:** `object`

- **Default:** See options down below for details

Used to control whether to enable Rspack future default options, check out the details [here](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/pull/4107).

### experiments.rspackFuture.disableTransformByDefault

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.3.5"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.3.5
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.4.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.5.0
- **Description:**

  This feature primarily addresses three categories of problems: [builtins](/config/builtins) code transformation features, [target](/config/target), and custom [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype).

  1. **Removal of support for some [builtins](/config/builtins) features:**

  - [builtins.relay](/config/builtins#builtinsrelay)
  - [builtins.react](/config/builtins#builtinsreact)
  - [builtins.emotion](/config/builtins#builtinsemotion)
  - [builtins.pluginImport](/config/builtins#builtinspluginimport)
  - [builtins.decorator](/config/builtins#builtinsdecorator)
  - [builtins.presetEnv](/config/builtins#builtinspresetenv)

  These configuration items should apply to the selected corresponding modules. Using `builtins.(relay|react|emotion|pluginImport|decorator)` is equivalent to enabling them globally. This approach is not recommended, so it will be deprecated.

  After enabling `disableTransformByDefault`, the aforementioned configuration items will become invalid. For a migration guide, refer to [builtin:swc-loader/options.rspackExperiments](/guide/features/loader#optionsrspackexperiments).

  For instance, if we want the `emotion` transformation to apply to all `jsx` files:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.jsx$/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "ecmascript",
                jsx: true
              }
            },
            rspackExperiments: {
              emotion: true // The same as `builtins`
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

  For the decorator configuration, you can find and replace in the SWC code, such as [legacyDecorator](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctransformlegacydecorator), [decoratorMetadata](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctransformlegacydecorator).

  2. **[target](/config/target) will not downgrade user-side code**

  In **previous** versions, we typically set `target: ["web", "es5"]` to produce web-compatible and downgraded code. Now, when the `disableTransformByDefault` configuration item is enabled, the `target` will only be used to control runtime code (except for user-written code, Rspack generated code within node_modules, like chunk loading, etc.)

  This aligns with webpack's plugin-based design philosophy. You can migrate using `builtin:swc-loader`'s [`env`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#env) or [`target`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/compilation#jsctarget), and precisely control the modules that need to be transpiled:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.[cm]?js$/,
          exclude: /node_modules/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "ecmascript"
              },
              target: "es5" // Notice: `jsc.target` and `env` cannot be set at the same time.
            },
            env: { //  Notice: `jsc.target` and `env` cannot be set at the same time.
              targets: "chrome >= 48"
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

  **Note**: When `disableTransformByDefault` is not enabled, the rspack's built-in transpiler will transpile all content under `node_modules`. Therefore, after enabling `disableTransformByDefault`, with `builtin:swc-loader` combined with `exclude: /node_modules/`, ensure the code in `node_modules` has been downgraded; otherwise, compatibility issues may arise.

  3. **Removed non-webpack compatible [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype)**

  These types have been removed:

  - `"typescript"`
  - `"jsx"`
  - `"tsx"`

  For JS-related types, only the following will be retained:

  - `"javascript/auto"`
  - `"javascript/esm"`
  - `"javascript/dynamic"`

  With `disableTransformByDefault` enabled, Rspack will only support input compliant with web standards, aligning with webpack's design philosophy.

  After discussions with webpack, both webpack and Rspack will offer more out-of-the-box configurations to support non-standard inputs like TypeScript.

  Since files with the extensions `jsx`, `tsx`, and `ts` are implicitly set for transpilation, an error will be prompted when `disableTransformByDefault` is enabled. You can migrate like this:

  ```js title="rspack.config.js"
  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.ts$/,
          exclude: /node_modules/,
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: "typescript"
              }
            }
          }
          type: 'javascript/auto',
        },
      ],
      {
        test: /\.tsx$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: "typescript",
              tsx: true
            }
          }
        }
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
        options: {
          jsc: {
            parser: {
              syntax: "ecmascript",
              jsx: true
            }
          }
        }
      }
    },
    experiments: {
      rspackFuture: {
        disableTransformByDefault: true
      }
    }
  };
  ```

### experiments.rspackFuture.newResolver

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.3.7"
  removedVersion="0.5.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.3.7
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.4.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.5.0

This feature enables the new resolver implementation.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newResolver: true,
    },
  },
};
```

The new resolver also supports [tsconfig project references](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/project-references.html) defined in [tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin](https://github.com/dividab/tsconfig-paths-webpack-plugin#references-_string-defaultundefined). See [resolve API](/config/resolve#resolvetsconfig) for details.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  resolve: {
    tsconfig: {
      configFile: path.resolve(__dirname, './tsconfig.json'),
      references: 'auto'
    },
  }
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newResolver: true
    }
  }
}
```

### experiments.rspackFuture.newTreeshaking

<ApiMeta addedVersion="0.4.2" removedVersion="0.7.0" />

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.4.2
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.6.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.7.0

:::warning
newTreeshaking has been enabled and cannot go back to the deprecated tree shaking algorithm since version 0.7.0.
:::

This feature enables the new treeshaking implementation the same as webpack, which would generate more efficient and smaller code

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  experiments: {
    rspackFuture: {
      newTreeshaking: true,
    },
  },
};
```

### experiments.rspackFuture.disableApplyEntryLazily

<ApiMeta
  addedVersion="0.4.5"
  removedVersion="0.6.0"
  stability={Stability.Removed}
/>

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Introduced in Version:** v0.4.5
- **Enabled by Default in Version:** v0.5.0
- **Removed in Version:** v0.6.0

When this feature is not enabled, `options.entry` can still make valid changes after `compiler.hooks.afterEnvironment` is called.

With this feature turned on, `options.entry` will no longer make valid changes after `compiler.hooks.afterEnvironment` call. This behavior is consistent with Webpack, so this configuration is unaffected for users developing applications in Rspack, but should be noted by developers of Rspack plugins or upper-level frameworks.

A common scenario is to [prepend entries after the Compiler has been created](https://github.com/webpack/webpack-dev-server/blob/540c43852ea33f9cb18820e1cef05d5ddb86cc3e/lib/Server.js#L719-L783):

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
const compiler = rspack(options);

function prependEntry(compiler, additionalEntry) {
  for (const key in compiler.options.entry) {
    compiler.options.entry[key].import = [
      additionalEntry,
      ...(compiler.options.entry[key].import || []),
    ];
  }
}

prependEntry(compiler, 'dev-client.js');
```

Modifications will not take effect when this configuration is turned on, and you need to make the following changes:

```js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
const compiler = rspack(options);

function prependEntry(compiler, additionalEntry) {
  new compiler.webpack.EntryPlugin(compiler.context, additionalEntry, {
    name: undefined,
  }).apply(compiler);
}

prependEntry(compiler, 'dev-client.js');
```
