website/docs/en/config/optimization.mdx, before:

import PropertyType from '../../../components/property-type.tsx';

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/configuration/optimization/" />

# Optimization

Rspack will select appropriate optimization configuration based on the [`mode`](/config/mode). You can also customize the configuration via [`optimization`](/config/optimization).

## optimization.moduleIds

<PropertyType type="'natural' | 'named' | 'deterministic'" />

| option          | description                                                                                                                         |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `natural`       | Use numeric ids in order of usage.                                                                                                  |
| `named`         | Use meaningful, easy-to-debug content as id. This option is enabled by default in development mode.                                 |
| `deterministic` | Use the hashed module identifier as the id to benefit from long-term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode. |

## optimization.chunkIds

<PropertyType type="'named' | 'deterministic'" />

| option            | description                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `'named'`         | Readable ids for better debugging. This option is enabled by default in development mode                                                            |
| `'deterministic'` | Short numeric ids which will not be changing between compilation. Good for long term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode. |

## optimization.minimize

<PropertyType
  type="boolean"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>
Whether to minimize the bundle.

## optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

Whether to merge chunks which contain the same modules. Setting optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks
to false will disable this optimization.

:::info
This optimization currently has the potential to significantly impact performance.
If you are encountering performance issue, and you are using `optimization.splitChunks`, also have set `optimization.splitChunks.chunks` to 'all', you can disable `optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks`.
:::

## optimization.minimizer

<PropertyType
  type="Array<Plugin>"
  defaultValueList={[
    {
      defaultValue:
        '[new SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin(), new SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin()]',
    },
  ]}
/>

Customize the minimizer. By default, [`rspack.SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/swc-js-minimizer-rspack-plugin)
and [`rspack.SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/swc-css-minimizer-rspack-plugin) are used.
When `optimization.minimizer` is specified, the default minimizers will be disabled.

```js title=rspack.config.js
const minifyPlugin = require('@rspack/plugin-minify');
module.exports = {
  context: __dirname,
  target: 'node',
  entry: {
    main: './index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    minimize: true,
    minimizer: [
      new minifyPlugin({
        minifier: 'terser',
      }),
    ],
  },
};
```

Use the built-in minimizer with custom options:

```js title=rspack.config.js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
module.exports = {
  // ...
  optimization: {
    minimize: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production',
    // when `optimization.minimizer` is specified, the default minimizers are disabled by default
    // but you can use '...', it represents the default minimizers
    minimizer: [
      new rspack.SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin({
        format: {
          comments: false,
        },
      }),
      new rspack.SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin(),
    ],
  },
};
```

## optimization.removeEmptyChunks

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

Remove empty chunks generated in the compilation.

## optimization.runtimeChunk

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | string | ((entrypoint: { name: string }) => string)"
  defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'false' }]}
/>

Used to control how the runtime chunk is generated.

Setting it to `true` or `'multiple'` will add an additional chunk containing only the runtime for each entry point.

Setting it to `'single'` will extract the runtime code of all entry points into a single separate chunk.

## optimization.sideEffects

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'flag'"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

```json
{
  "name": "npm module",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "sideEffects": ["**/src/*.js"]
}
```

Tells Rspack to recognise the sideEffects flag in package.json or rules to skip over modules which are flagged to contain no side effects when exports are not used.

`optimization.sideEffects` depended on `builtins.treeShaking` to be enabled.

This configuration has a build time cost, but eliminating modules has positive impact on performance because of less code generation. Effect of this optimization depends on your codebase.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    sideEffects: true,
  },
};
```

If you only want Rspack use the manual `sideEffects` flag via (package.json and module.rule.sideEffects) and don't analyse code:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    sideEffects: 'flag',
  },
};
```

:::info Tip
When `optimization.sideEffects` is true , Rspack will also flag modules as side effect free when they contain only side effect free statements.
:::

## optimization.realContentHash

Adds an additional hash compilation pass after the assets have been processed to get the correct asset content hashes. This feature will enable by default in production mode.

If realContentHash is set to false, internal data is used to calculate the hash and it can change when assets are identical in some cases.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    realContentHash: true,
  },
};
```

## optimization.splitChunks

<PropertyType type="false | object" />

Rspack supports splitting chunks with the `optimization.splitChunks` configuration item.

It is enabled by default for dynamically imported modules.

To turn it off, set it to `false`.

See details at [SplitChunksPlugin](/plugins/webpack/split-chunks-plugin).

## optimization.usedExports

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'global'"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

Tells Rspack to determine used exports for each module. This depends on `optimization.providedExports`.
Information collected by `optimization.usedExports` is used by other optimizations or code generation i.e.
Exports are not generated for unused exports, export names are mangled to single char identifiers when all usages are compatible. Dead code elimination in minimizers will benefit from this and can remove unused exports.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    usedExports: false,
  },
};
```

To opt-out from used exports analysis per runtime:

```js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    usedExports: 'global',
  },
};
```

## optimization.innerGraph

<PropertyType
  type="boolean"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

`optimization.innerGraph` tells Rspack whether to conduct inner graph analysis for unused exports.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    innerGraph: false,
  },
};
```

## optimization.providedExports

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

After enabling, Rspack will analyze which exports the module provides, including re-exported modules. A warning or error will be issued when importing members that reference non-existent exports. By default, `optimization.providedExports` is enabled. This analysis will increase build time. You may consider disabling this configuration in development mode. Disabling it may lead to errors related to runtime circular dependencies as mentioned in the [SideEffects section](/guide/optimization/tree-shaking#reexports-optimization).

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    providedExports: false,
  },
};
```

## optimization.mangleExports

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'deterministic' | 'size' "
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'deterministic', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

`optimization.mangleExports` allows to control export mangling.
The following values are supported:

| option          | description                                                                                                                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 'named'         | Use meaningful, easy-to-debug content as id. This option is enabled by default in development mode                                 |
| 'deterministic' | Use the hashed module identifier as the id to benefit from long-term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode |
| true            | Same as 'deterministic'                                                                                                            |
| false           | Keep original name. Good for readability and debugging.                                                                            |

Commit message:

docs: complete experiments docs (#6823)
* docs: externalsPresets

* u

* docs: complete optimization docs

* u

* fix

* u

* u

website/docs/en/config/optimization.mdx, after:

import PropertyType from '../../../components/property-type.tsx';

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/configuration/optimization/" />

# Optimization

Rspack will select appropriate optimization configuration based on the [`mode`](/config/mode). You can also customize the configuration via [`optimization`](/config/optimization).

## optimization.moduleIds

<PropertyType type="'natural' | 'named' | 'deterministic'" />

| option          | description                                                                                                                         |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `natural`       | Use numeric ids in order of usage.                                                                                                  |
| `named`         | Use meaningful, easy-to-debug content as id. This option is enabled by default in development mode.                                 |
| `deterministic` | Use the hashed module identifier as the id to benefit from long-term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode. |

## optimization.chunkIds

<PropertyType type="'named' | 'deterministic'" />

| option            | description                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `'named'`         | Readable ids for better debugging. This option is enabled by default in development mode                                                            |
| `'deterministic'` | Short numeric ids which will not be changing between compilation. Good for long term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode. |

## optimization.minimize

<PropertyType
  type="boolean"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>
Whether to minimize the bundle.

## optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

Whether to merge chunks which contain the same modules. Setting optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks
to false will disable this optimization.

:::info
This optimization currently has the potential to significantly impact performance.
If you are encountering performance issue, and you are using `optimization.splitChunks`, also have set `optimization.splitChunks.chunks` to 'all', you can disable `optimization.mergeDuplicateChunks`.
:::

## optimization.minimizer

<PropertyType
  type="Array<Plugin>"
  defaultValueList={[
    {
      defaultValue:
        '[new SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin(), new SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin()]',
    },
  ]}
/>

Customize the minimizer. By default, [`rspack.SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/swc-js-minimizer-rspack-plugin)
and [`rspack.SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin`](/plugins/rspack/swc-css-minimizer-rspack-plugin) are used.
When `optimization.minimizer` is specified, the default minimizers will be disabled.

```js title=rspack.config.js
const minifyPlugin = require('@rspack/plugin-minify');
module.exports = {
  context: __dirname,
  target: 'node',
  entry: {
    main: './index.js',
  },
  optimization: {
    minimize: true,
    minimizer: [
      new minifyPlugin({
        minifier: 'terser',
      }),
    ],
  },
};
```

Use the built-in minimizer with custom options:

```js title=rspack.config.js
const rspack = require('@rspack/core');
module.exports = {
  // ...
  optimization: {
    minimize: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production',
    // when `optimization.minimizer` is specified, the default minimizers are disabled by default
    // but you can use '...', it represents the default minimizers
    minimizer: [
      new rspack.SwcJsMinimizerRspackPlugin({
        format: {
          comments: false,
        },
      }),
      new rspack.SwcCssMinimizerRspackPlugin(),
    ],
  },
};
```

## optimization.removeEmptyChunks

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

Remove empty chunks generated in the compilation.

## optimization.runtimeChunk

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | string | ((entrypoint: { name: string }) => string)"
  defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'false' }]}
/>

Used to control how the runtime chunk is generated.

Setting it to `true` or `'multiple'` will add an additional chunk containing only the runtime for each entry point.

Setting it to `'single'` will extract the runtime code of all entry points into a single separate chunk.

## optimization.sideEffects

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'flag'"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

```json
{
  "name": "npm module",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "sideEffects": ["**/src/*.js"]
}
```

Tells Rspack to recognise the sideEffects flag in package.json or rules to skip over modules which are flagged to contain no side effects when exports are not used.

`optimization.sideEffects` depended on `builtins.treeShaking` to be enabled.

This configuration has a build time cost, but eliminating modules has positive impact on performance because of less code generation. Effect of this optimization depends on your codebase.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    sideEffects: true,
  },
};
```

If you only want Rspack use the manual `sideEffects` flag via (package.json and module.rule.sideEffects) and don't analyse code:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    sideEffects: 'flag',
  },
};
```

:::info Tip
When `optimization.sideEffects` is true , Rspack will also flag modules as side effect free when they contain only side effect free statements.
:::

## optimization.realContentHash

Adds an additional hash compilation pass after the assets have been processed to get the correct asset content hashes. This feature will enable by default in production mode.

If realContentHash is set to false, internal data is used to calculate the hash and it can change when assets are identical in some cases.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    realContentHash: true,
  },
};
```

## optimization.splitChunks

- **Type:** `false | object`

Rspack supports splitting chunks with the `optimization.splitChunks` configuration item.

It is enabled by default for dynamically imported modules.

To turn it off, set it to `false`.

See available options for configuring this behavior in the [SplitChunksPlugin](/plugins/webpack/split-chunks-plugin) page.

## optimization.usedExports

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'global'"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

Tells Rspack to determine used exports for each module. This depends on `optimization.providedExports`.
Information collected by `optimization.usedExports` is used by other optimizations or code generation i.e.
Exports are not generated for unused exports, export names are mangled to single char identifiers when all usages are compatible. Dead code elimination in minimizers will benefit from this and can remove unused exports.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    usedExports: false,
  },
};
```

To opt-out from used exports analysis per runtime:

```js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    usedExports: 'global',
  },
};
```

## optimization.innerGraph

<PropertyType
  type="boolean"
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'true', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

`optimization.innerGraph` tells Rspack whether to conduct inner graph analysis for unused exports.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    innerGraph: false,
  },
};
```

## optimization.providedExports

<PropertyType type="boolean" defaultValueList={[{ defaultValue: 'true' }]} />

After enabling, Rspack will analyze which exports the module provides, including re-exported modules. A warning or error will be issued when importing members that reference non-existent exports. By default, `optimization.providedExports` is enabled. This analysis will increase build time. You may consider disabling this configuration in development mode. Disabling it may lead to errors related to runtime circular dependencies as mentioned in the [SideEffects section](/guide/optimization/tree-shaking#reexports-optimization).

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    providedExports: false,
  },
};
```

## optimization.mangleExports

<PropertyType
  type="boolean | 'deterministic' | 'size' "
  defaultValueList={[
    { defaultValue: 'deterministic', mode: 'production' },
    { defaultValue: 'false', mode: 'development' },
  ]}
/>

`optimization.mangleExports` allows to control export mangling.
The following values are supported:

| option          | description                                                                                                                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 'named'         | Use meaningful, easy-to-debug content as id. This option is enabled by default in development mode                                 |
| 'deterministic' | Use the hashed module identifier as the id to benefit from long-term caching. This option is enabled by default in production mode |
| true            | Same as 'deterministic'                                                                                                            |
| false           | Keep original name. Good for readability and debugging.                                                                            |

## optimization.nodeEnv

- **Type:** `boolean | string`
- **Default:** `false`

Tells Rspack to set `process.env.NODE_ENV` to a given string value. `optimization.nodeEnv` uses [DefinePlugin](/plugins/webpack/define-plugin) unless set to false.
`optimization.nodeEnv` **defaults** to [mode](/config/mode) if set, else falls back to `'production'`.

Possible values:

- any string: the value to set `process.env.NODE_ENV` to.
- false: do not modify/set the value of `process.env.NODE_ENV`.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  //...
  optimization: {
    nodeEnv: 'production',
  },
};
```

:::tip
When [mode](/config/mode) is set to `'none'`, `optimization.nodeEnv` defaults to `false`.
:::
