website/docs/en/config/target.mdx, before:

# Target

Used to configure the target environment of Rspack output and the ECMAScript version of Rspack runtime code.

- **Type:** `string | string[]`

## string

The following options are now supported:

| options                      | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `'node[[X].Y]'`              | Compile as available for Node.js environments                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `'async-node[[X].Y]'`        | Compile for usage in a Node.js-like environment (uses fs and vm to load chunks asynchronously)                                                                                                                                                |
| `'web'`                      | Compile as available in the browser environment (default)                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `'esX'`                      | Compile Rspack runtime to the corresponding ECMAScript version. Currently supports `es3`, `es5`, `es2015`, `es2016`, `es2017`, `es2018`, `es2019`, `es2020`, `es2021`, `es2022` (es5 is used by default)                                      |
| `'browserslist'`             | Infer the ECMAScript version based on the configured browserslist                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-main'`     | Compile for Electron for main process.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-renderer'` | Compile for Electron for renderer process, providing a target using `array-push` as chunkFormat and `jsonp` as chunkLoading for browser environments and `NodeTargetPlugin` and `ExternalsPlugin` for CommonJS and Electron built-in modules. |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-preload'`  | Compile for Electron for preload script of renderer process                                                                                                                                                                                   |

{/* | `'webworker'`   | Compile as WebWorker                                                                                                                                                                                     | */}

:::warning Specifies the ECMAScript version of the user code

The `esX` in the `target` configuration can only specify the ECMAScript version syntax of the code in the Rspack runtime. If you want to specify the ECMAScript version of the user code, you should use [builtin:swc-loader](/guide/features/builtin-swc-loader.html), or [babel-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-loader), or [swc-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/swc-loader) to degrade the user code.

:::

## Example

Specify that the Compiler needs to compile to the Node.js environment:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  target: 'node',
};
```

When specifying that the Compiler needs to be compiled for multiple platforms, an error is reported:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  target: ['web', 'node'],
};
```

{
// TODO: add link to MultiCompiler
// In this case, you can use MultiCompiler to package it in multiple configurations.
}

Commit message:

feat: add nwjs target to rspack config (#6880)

website/docs/en/config/target.mdx, after:

# Target

Used to configure the target environment of Rspack output and the ECMAScript version of Rspack runtime code.

- **Type:** `string | string[]`

## string

The following options are now supported:

| options                      | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `'node[[X].Y]'`              | Compile as available for Node.js environments                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `'async-node[[X].Y]'`        | Compile for usage in a Node.js-like environment (uses fs and vm to load chunks asynchronously)                                                                                                                                                |
| `'web'`                      | Compile as available in the browser environment (default)                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `'esX'`                      | Compile Rspack runtime to the corresponding ECMAScript version. Currently supports `es3`, `es5`, `es2015`, `es2016`, `es2017`, `es2018`, `es2019`, `es2020`, `es2021`, `es2022` (es5 is used by default)                                      |
| `'browserslist'`             | Infer the ECMAScript version based on the configured browserslist                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-main'`     | Compile for Electron for main process.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-renderer'` | Compile for Electron for renderer process, providing a target using `array-push` as chunkFormat and `jsonp` as chunkLoading for browser environments and `NodeTargetPlugin` and `ExternalsPlugin` for CommonJS and Electron built-in modules. |
| `'electron[[X].Y]-preload'`  | Compile for Electron for preload script of renderer process                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `'nwjs[[X].Y]'`              | Compile as available for NW.js environments                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `'node-webkit[[X].Y]'`       | Compile as available for node-webkit environments                                                                                                                                                                                             |

{/* | `'webworker'`   | Compile as WebWorker                                                                                                                                                                                     | */}

:::warning Specifies the ECMAScript version of the user code

The `esX` in the `target` configuration can only specify the ECMAScript version syntax of the code in the Rspack runtime. If you want to specify the ECMAScript version of the user code, you should use [builtin:swc-loader](/guide/features/builtin-swc-loader.html), or [babel-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-loader), or [swc-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/swc-loader) to degrade the user code.

:::

## Example

Specify that the Compiler needs to compile to the Node.js environment:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  target: 'node',
};
```

When specifying that the Compiler needs to be compiled for multiple platforms, an error is reported:

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  target: ['web', 'node'],
};
```

{
// TODO: add link to MultiCompiler
// In this case, you can use MultiCompiler to package it in multiple configurations.
}
