website/docs/en/plugins/webpack/source-map-dev-tool-plugin.mdx, before:

import { ApiMeta } from '../../../../components/ApiMeta.tsx';

# SourceMapDevToolPlugin

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.5.2'} />

This plugin enables more fine grained control of source map generation. It is also enabled automatically by certain settings of the [`devtool`](/en/config/devtool.html) configuration option.

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin(options);
```

## Options

- `test` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Include source maps for modules based on their extension (defaults to .js, .mjs, and .css).
- `include` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Include source maps for module paths that match the given value.
- `exclude` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Exclude modules that match the given value from source map generation.
- `filename` (`string`): Defines the output filename of the SourceMap (will be inlined if no value is provided).
- `append` (`string` `function`): Appends the given value to the original asset. Usually the #sourceMappingURL comment. [url] is replaced with a URL to the source map file. Path parameters are supported: [chunk], [filename] and [contenthash]. Setting append to false disables the appending.
- `moduleFilenameTemplate` (`string`): See [`output.devtoolModuleFilenameTemplate`](/en/config/output.html#outputdevtoolmodulefilenametemplate).
- `fallbackModuleFilenameTemplate` (`string`): See link above.
- `namespace` (`string`): See [`output.devtoolNamespace`](/en/config/output.html#outputdevtoolnamespace).
- `module = true` (`boolean`): Indicates whether loaders should generate source maps.
- `columns = true` (`boolean`): Indicates whether column mappings should be used.
- `noSources = false` (`boolean`): Prevents the source file content from being included in the source map.
- `publicPath` (`string`): Emits absolute URLs with public path prefix, e.g. https://example.com/project/.
- `fileContext` (`string`): Makes the [file] argument relative to this directory.
- `sourceRoot` (`string`): Provide a custom value for the sourceRoot property in the SourceMap.

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate some common use cases for this plugin.

### Basic Use Case

You can use the following code to replace the configuration option devtool: inline-source-map with an equivalent custom plugin configuration:

```js
module.exports = {
  // ...
  devtool: false,
  plugins: [new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({})],
};
```

### Exclude Vendor Maps

The following code would exclude source maps for any modules in the vendor.js bundle:

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  filename: '[file].map[query]',
  exclude: ['vendor.js'],
});
```

### Host Source Maps Externally

Set a URL for source maps. Useful for hosting them on a host that requires authorization.

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  append: '\n//# sourceMappingURL=https://example.com/sourcemap/[url]',
  filename: '[file].map[query]',
});
```

And for cases when source maps are stored in the upper level directory:

```
project
|- dist
  |- public
    |- bundle-[hash].js
  |- sourcemaps
    |- bundle-[hash].js.map
```

With the following config:

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  filename: 'sourcemaps/[file].map',
  publicPath: 'https://example.com/project/',
  fileContext: 'public',
});
```

Will produce the following URL:

```
https://example.com/project/sourcemaps/bundle-[hash].js.map
```

Commit message:

fix: source map dev tool plugin

website/docs/en/plugins/webpack/source-map-dev-tool-plugin.mdx, after:

import { ApiMeta } from '../../../../components/ApiMeta.tsx';

# SourceMapDevToolPlugin

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.5.2'} />

This plugin enables more fine grained control of source map generation. It is also enabled automatically by certain settings of the [`devtool`](/en/config/devtool.html) configuration option.

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin(options);
```

## Options

- `test` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Include source maps for modules based on their extension (defaults to `.js`, `.mjs`, and `.css`).
- `include` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Include source maps for module paths that match the given value.
- `exclude` (`string` `RegExp` `[string, RegExp]`): Exclude modules that match the given value from source map generation.
- `filename` (`string`): Defines the output filename of the SourceMap (will be inlined if no value is provided).
- `append` (`string` `function`): Appends the given value to the original asset. Usually the `#sourceMappingURL` comment. `[url]` is replaced with a URL to the source map file. Path parameters are supported: `[chunk]`, `[filename]` and `[contenthash]`. Setting append to false disables the appending.
- `moduleFilenameTemplate` (`string`): See [`output.devtoolModuleFilenameTemplate`](/en/config/output.html#outputdevtoolmodulefilenametemplate).
- `fallbackModuleFilenameTemplate` (`string`): See link above.
- `namespace` (`string`): See [`output.devtoolNamespace`](/en/config/output.html#outputdevtoolnamespace).
- `module = true` (`boolean`): Indicates whether loaders should generate source maps.
- `columns = true` (`boolean`): Indicates whether column mappings should be used.
- `noSources = false` (`boolean`): Prevents the source file content from being included in the source map.
- `publicPath` (`string`): Emits absolute URLs with public path prefix, e.g. `https://example.com/project/`.
- `fileContext` (`string`): Makes the `[file]` argument relative to this directory.
- `sourceRoot` (`string`): Provide a custom value for the `sourceRoot` property in the SourceMap.

:::tip
Setting `module` and/or `columns` to `false` will yield less accurate source maps but will also improve compilation performance significantly.
:::

:::tip
If you want to use a custom configuration for this plugin in [development mode](/config/mode#development), make sure to disable the default one. I.e. set `devtool: false`.
:::

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate some common use cases for this plugin.

### Basic Use Case

You can use the following code to replace the configuration option devtool: inline-source-map with an equivalent custom plugin configuration:

```js
module.exports = {
  // ...
  devtool: false,
  plugins: [new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({})],
};
```

### Exclude Vendor Maps

The following code would exclude source maps for any modules in the vendor.js bundle:

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  filename: '[file].map[query]',
  exclude: ['vendor.js'],
});
```

### Host Source Maps Externally

Set a URL for source maps. Useful for hosting them on a host that requires authorization.

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  append: '\n//# sourceMappingURL=https://example.com/sourcemap/[url]',
  filename: '[file].map[query]',
});
```

And for cases when source maps are stored in the upper level directory:

```
project
|- dist
  |- public
    |- bundle-[hash].js
  |- sourcemaps
    |- bundle-[hash].js.map
```

With the following config:

```js
new rspack.SourceMapDevToolPlugin({
  filename: 'sourcemaps/[file].map',
  publicPath: 'https://example.com/project/',
  fileContext: 'public',
});
```

Will produce the following URL:

```
https://example.com/project/sourcemaps/bundle-[hash].js.map
```
