website/docs/en/index.md, before:

---
pageType: home

link-rss: blog-rss

hero:
  name: Rspack
  text: |
    The fast Rust-based
    web bundler
  tagline: Seamlessly replace webpack with compatible API
  image:
    src: https://assets.rspack.dev/rspack/rspack-logo.svg
    alt: logo
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/start/quick-start
    - theme: alt
      text: Learn More
      link: /guide/start/introduction

features:
  - title: Fast Startup
    details: Combining TypeScript and Rust with a parallelized architecture to bring you the ultimate developer experience.
    icon: 🚀
    link: /guide/start/introduction
  - title: Lightning HMR
    details: A built-in incremental compilation mechanism provides superior Hot Module Replacement performance for large-scale projects.
    icon: ⚡
    link: /guide/start/introduction
  - title: Webpack Compatible
    details: Compatible with plugins and loaders in the webpack ecosystem, seamlessly integrating excellent libraries built by the community.
    icon: 📦
    link: /guide/compatibility/plugin
  - title: Batteries Included
    details: Out-of-the-box support for TypeScript, JSX, CSS, CSS Modules, Sass, and more.
    icon: 🎨
    link: /guide/tech/typescript
  - title: Production Optimizations
    details: Core optimizations such as tree shaking and minification have integrated implementations rather than deferring to plugins.
    icon: 🛠️
    link: /guide/optimization/production
  - title: Framework Agnostic
    details: Not bound to any frontend framework. Everyone can use it!
    icon: 🎯
    link: /guide/tech/react
---

Commit message:

docs: add module federation to features list

website/docs/en/index.md, after:

---
pageType: home

link-rss: blog-rss

hero:
  name: Rspack
  text: |
    The fast Rust-based
    web bundler
  tagline: Seamlessly replace webpack with compatible API
  image:
    src: https://assets.rspack.dev/rspack/rspack-logo.svg
    alt: logo
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/start/quick-start
    - theme: alt
      text: Learn More
      link: /guide/start/introduction

features:
  - title: Fast Startup
    details: Combining TypeScript and Rust with a parallelized architecture to bring you the ultimate developer experience.
    icon: 🚀
    link: /guide/start/introduction
  - title: Lightning HMR
    details: A built-in incremental compilation mechanism provides superior Hot Module Replacement performance for large-scale projects.
    icon: ⚡
    link: /guide/start/introduction
  - title: Webpack Compatible
    details: Compatible with plugins and loaders in the webpack ecosystem, seamlessly integrating excellent libraries built by the community.
    icon: 📦
    link: /guide/compatibility/plugin
  - title: Module Federation
    details: Provide first-class support for Module Federation to facilitate the development of large-scale web applications.
    icon: 🎨
    link: /guide/features/module-federation
  - title: Production Optimizations
    details: Core optimizations such as tree shaking and minification have integrated implementations rather than deferring to plugins.
    icon: 🛠️
    link: /guide/optimization/production
  - title: Framework Agnostic
    details: Not bound to any frontend framework. Everyone can use it!
    icon: 🎯
    link: /guide/tech/react
---
