website/docs/en/guide/features/loader.mdx, before:

# Loader

In bundling terminology, a loader is like a plugin but tasked with transforming file contents. You can use loaders to transform arbitrary input files into file types that are natively supported by Rspack.

:::tip

A loader performs pre-processing of resources, whereas a configuration [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype) describes post-processing of resources whose type is natively supported by Rspack.

:::

## Example

### Using Less

CSS is a first-class citizen of Rspack, so processing of CSS files is natively supported. For `Less` files, you need to use an external [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) to transform the contents of the file accordingly.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

[less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) can transform Less files to Rspack-supported CSS module types, so you can set the type to `'css'` to instruct Rspack to use the CSS handling method that is natively supported for post-processing.

### Combining multiple Loaders

You can chain multiple loaders for a particular [Rule](/config/module#rule) match, with the loaders executed in right-to-left order.

For example, you can use [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) to do the transformation between Less to CSS types and [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader) for the transformed source code to perform a secondary transformation, which will then get passed to Rspack's CSS post-processor for further processing.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
          },
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Passing configuration items

You can use [Rule.use](/config/module#ruleuse) to pass the relevant configuration to the loader, for example:

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                // ...
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Using a custom loader

You can use a custom loader with Rspack. In the example below, we'll use the loader API to write a simple banner-loader.

The purpose of the banner-loader is to prepend a banner comment at the header of each module, such as a license notice:

```js
/**
 * MIT Licensed
 * Copyright (c) 2022-present ByteDance, Inc. and its affiliates.
 * https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/blob/main/LICENSE
 */
```

Create a new `banner-loader.js` file under the root of the project with the following content:

```js title="banner-loader.js"
const BANNER = `/**
 * MIT Licensed
 * Copyright (c) 2022-present ByteDance, Inc. and its affiliates.
 * https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/blob/main/LICENSE
 */`;

module.exports = function (content) {
  return `${BANNER}\n${content}`;
};
```

The first input to this loader is the content of the file, allowing us to process the file content and return the transformed result. The script file must be imported using CommonJS `require()`.

For example, to add a banner to all `*.js` files, the configuration might look like this:

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        loader: require.resolve('./banner-loader.js'),
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

For details, you can refer to [loader-api](/api/loader-api/index)

### Using Built-in Loader

Built-in Loaders offer superior performance compared to JS Loaders, without sacrificing the composability of JS Loaders. The following are some built-in loaders.

- [builtin:swc-loader](/guide/features/builtin-swc-loader)

Commit message:

docs: remove loader campat page

website/docs/en/guide/features/loader.mdx, after:

# Loader

In bundling terminology, a loader is like a plugin but tasked with transforming file contents. You can use loaders to transform arbitrary input files into file types that are natively supported by Rspack.

:::tip

A loader performs pre-processing of resources, whereas a configuration [Rule.type](/config/module#ruletype) describes post-processing of resources whose type is natively supported by Rspack.

:::

Rspack has supported most community loaders, but only a few loaders such as [cache-loader](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/issues/6457) are not yet supported. If you find an unsupported loader, please feel free to communicate with us through [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/issues).

## Example

### Using Less

CSS is a first-class citizen of Rspack, so processing of CSS files is natively supported. For `Less` files, you need to use an external [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) to transform the contents of the file accordingly.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

[less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) can transform Less files to Rspack-supported CSS module types, so you can set the type to `'css'` to instruct Rspack to use the CSS handling method that is natively supported for post-processing.

### Combining multiple Loaders

You can chain multiple loaders for a particular [Rule](/config/module#rule) match, with the loaders executed in right-to-left order.

For example, you can use [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) to do the transformation between Less to CSS types and [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader) for the transformed source code to perform a secondary transformation, which will then get passed to Rspack's CSS post-processor for further processing.

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
          },
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Passing configuration items

You can use [Rule.use](/config/module#ruleuse) to pass the relevant configuration to the loader, for example:

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                // ...
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Using a custom loader

You can use a custom loader with Rspack. In the example below, we'll use the loader API to write a simple banner-loader.

The purpose of the banner-loader is to prepend a banner comment at the header of each module, such as a license notice:

```js
/**
 * MIT Licensed
 * Copyright (c) 2022-present ByteDance, Inc. and its affiliates.
 * https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/blob/main/LICENSE
 */
```

Create a new `banner-loader.js` file under the root of the project with the following content:

```js title="banner-loader.js"
const BANNER = `/**
 * MIT Licensed
 * Copyright (c) 2022-present ByteDance, Inc. and its affiliates.
 * https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/blob/main/LICENSE
 */`;

module.exports = function (content) {
  return `${BANNER}\n${content}`;
};
```

The first input to this loader is the content of the file, allowing us to process the file content and return the transformed result. The script file must be imported using CommonJS `require()`.

For example, to add a banner to all `*.js` files, the configuration might look like this:

```js title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        loader: require.resolve('./banner-loader.js'),
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

For details, you can refer to [loader-api](/api/loader-api/index)

### Using Built-in Loader

Built-in Loaders offer superior performance compared to JS Loaders, without sacrificing the composability of JS Loaders. The following are some built-in loaders.

- [builtin:swc-loader](/guide/features/builtin-swc-loader)
