website/docs/en/guide/features/web-workers.mdx, before:

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';
import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '@components/ApiMeta.tsx';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/guides/web-workers/" />

# Web Workers

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.2.6'} />

[Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers) are first-class citizens of Rspack, which means you don't need any loader to use Web Workers directly.

## Usage

```js
new Worker(new URL('./worker.js', import.meta.url));
```

```js
new Worker(new URL('./worker.js', import.meta.url), {
  name: 'my-worker', // <-- When the value of the name property can be statically analyzed, the worker's chunk name can be customized with this property to replace the [name] placeholder when the chunk file is generated
});
```

For examples:

- [examples/worker](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/worker)
- [examples/monaco-editor-js](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/monaco-editor-js)
- [examples/monaco-editor-ts-react](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/monaco-editor-ts-react)

:::info
The syntax was chosen to allow running code without bundler, it is also available in native ECMAScript modules in the browser.
:::

:::warning

1. Note that `new Worker` can also accept a string representation of a URL, but only passing in URLs is supported in Rspack.
2. Rspack does not support the use of variables in `new Worker`. For example, the following code will not work:

   ```js
   const url = new URL('./path/to/worker.js', import.meta.url);
   const worker = new Worker(url);
   ```

   This is because Rspack cannot statically analyze the syntax. Please be sure to note this limitation when using the Worker syntax in Rspack.

3. The current implementation supports most of the common usage scenarios, the following uncommon scenarios are still not supported
   - Customized worker syntax from `module.parser.javascript.worker` is not supported
   - Worker syntax for function calls such as `navigator.serviceWorker.register()` is not supported
   - Not supported `/* webpackEntryOptions: { filename: "workers/[name].js" } */` magic comments

:::

## worker-loader

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.7.4'} />

:::warning
worker-loader is provided only as a temporary solution to facilitate project migration to Rspack. It is recommended to use the `new Worker()` syntax instead.
:::

Rspack also supports worker-loader. However, since [worker-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/worker-loader) is no longer maintained, please use [worker-rspack-loader](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/worker-rspack-loader) as a replacement.

Use [resolveLoader](/config/resolve-loader) to replace worker-loader with worker-rspack-loader:

```js
module.exports = {
  resolveLoader: {
    alias: {
      'worker-loader': require.resolve('worker-rspack-loader'),
    },
  },
};
```

Commit message:

feat: custom worker syntax for worklet (#6916)

website/docs/en/guide/features/web-workers.mdx, after:

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';
import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '@components/ApiMeta.tsx';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/guides/web-workers/" />

# Web Workers

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.2.6'} />

[Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers) are first-class citizens of Rspack, which means you don't need any loader to use Web Workers directly.

## Usage

```js
new Worker(new URL('./worker.js', import.meta.url));
```

```js
new Worker(new URL('./worker.js', import.meta.url), {
  name: 'my-worker', // <-- When the value of the name property can be statically analyzed, the worker's chunk name can be customized with this property to replace the [name] placeholder when the chunk file is generated
});
```

In addition to `new Worker()`, the following syntax is also supported:

- `new SharedWorker()`
- `import { Worker } from "worker_threads"`: usually used in Node environments
- <ApiMeta addedVersion={'1.0.0-alpha.0'} inline /> `navigator.serviceWorker.register()`:
  used to register Service Workers

Custom syntax can be provided via [`module.parser.javascript.worker`](/config/module#moduleparserjavascriptworker).

For examples:

- [examples/worker](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/worker)
- [examples/monaco-editor-js](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/monaco-editor-js)
- [examples/monaco-editor-ts-react](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/tree/main/rspack/monaco-editor-ts-react)

:::info
The syntax was chosen to allow running code without bundler, it is also available in native ECMAScript modules in the browser.
:::

:::warning

1. Note that `new Worker` can also accept a string representation of a URL, but only passing in URLs is supported in Rspack.
2. Rspack does not support the use of variables in `new Worker`. For example, the following code will not work:

   ```js
   const url = new URL('./path/to/worker.js', import.meta.url);
   const worker = new Worker(url);
   ```

   This is because Rspack cannot statically analyze the syntax. Please be sure to note this limitation when using the Worker syntax in Rspack.

3. Not support `/* webpackEntryOptions: { filename: "workers/[name].js" } */` magic comments for now.

:::

## worker-loader

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.7.4'} />

:::warning
worker-loader is provided only as a temporary solution to facilitate project migration to Rspack. It is recommended to use the `new Worker()` syntax instead.
:::

Rspack also supports worker-loader. However, since [worker-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/worker-loader) is no longer maintained, please use [worker-rspack-loader](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/worker-rspack-loader) as a replacement.

Use [resolveLoader](/config/resolve-loader) to replace worker-loader with worker-rspack-loader:

```js
module.exports = {
  resolveLoader: {
    alias: {
      'worker-loader': require.resolve('worker-rspack-loader'),
    },
  },
};
```
