website/docs/en/api/loader-api/context.mdx, before:

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/api/loaders/#the-loader-context" />

# The Loader Context

The loader context represents the properties that are available inside of a loader assigned to the `this` property.

## this.addContextDependency()

```ts
function addContextDependency(directory: string): void;
```

Add the directory as a dependency for the loader results so that any changes to the files in the directory can be listened to.

## this.addDependency()

```ts
function addDependency(file: string): void;
```

Add a file as a dependency on the loader results so that any changes to them can be listened to. For example, `sass-loader`, `less-loader` use this trick to recompile when the imported style files change.

## this.dependency()

```ts
function dependency(file: string): void;
```

Alias of `this.addDependency()`.

## this.addMissingDependency()

```ts
function addMissingDependency(file: string): void;
```

Add a non-existent file as a dependency on the loader results to make them listenable.

## this.async()

Tells Rspack that this loader will be called asynchronously. Returns `this.callback`.

## this.cacheable()

A function that sets the cacheable flag:

```ts
function cacheable(flag: boolean = true): void;
```

By default, the processing results of the loader are marked as cacheable. Calling this method and passing `false` turns off the loader's ability to cache processing results.

## this.callback()

```ts
function callback(
  err: Error | null,
  content: string | Buffer,
  sourceMap?: SourceMap,
  meta?: any,
): void;
```

A function that can be called synchronously or asynchronously in order to return multiple results. The expected arguments are:

1. The first parameter must be `Error` or `null`, which marks the current module as a compilation failure.
2. The second argument is a `string` or `Buffer`, which indicates the contents of the file after the module has been processed by the loader.
3. The third parameter is a source map that can be processed by the loader.
4. The fourth parameter is ignored by Rspack and can be anything (e.g. some metadata).

## this.clearDependencies()

```ts
function clearDependencies(): void;
```

Removes all dependencies of the loader result.

## this.context

The directory where the current module is located.

## this.data

A data object shared between the pitch and the normal phase.

## this.emitError()

```ts
function emitError(error: Error): void;
```

Emit an error. Unlike `throw` and `this.callback(err)` in the loader, it does not mark the current module as a compilation failure, it just adds an error to Rspack's Compilation and displays it on the command line at the end of this compilation.

## this.emitWarning(warning: Error)

```ts
function emitWarning(warning: Error): void;
```

Emit a warning.

## this.emitFile()

```ts
function emitFile(
  name: string,
  content: Buffer | string,
  sourceMap: SourceMap,
): void;
```

Emit a file.

## this.getOptions(schema)

Extracts the given loader option, accepting an optional JSON schema as an argument.

## this.getResolve()

```ts
function getResolve(options: ResolveOptions): resolve;
```

Create a resolver like `this.resolve`.

## this.resolve()

```ts
function resolve(
  context: string,
  request: string,
  callback: (err: Error | null, result: string) => void,
): void;
```

Resolve a request.

- `context` must be the absolute path to a directory. This directory is used as the starting location for resolving.
- `request` is the request to be resolved.
- `callback` is a callback function that gives the resolved path.

## this.mode

The value of [`mode`](/config/mode) is read when Rspack is run.

The possible values are: `'production'`, `'development'`, `'none'`

## this.resource

The path string of the current module. For example `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.resourcePath

The path string of the current module, excluding the query and fragment parameters. For example `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'` in `'/abc/resource.js'`.

## this.resourceQuery

The query parameter for the path string of the current module. For example `'?query'` in `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.resourceFragment

The fragment parameter of the current module's path string. For example `'#hash'` in `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.rootContext

The directory where the project is configured in config

## this.sourceMap

Whether a source map should be generated.

## this.getLogger()

```ts
function getLogger(name?: string): void;
```

Get the logger of this compilation, through which messages can be logged.

Commit message:

feat: support target in loader context (#6640)
* test: add case

* feat: support target in loader context

* docs: update

website/docs/en/api/loader-api/context.mdx, after:

import WebpackLicense from '@components/webpack-license';

<WebpackLicense from="https://webpack.js.org/api/loaders/#the-loader-context" />

# The Loader Context

The loader context represents the properties that are available inside of a loader assigned to the `this` property.

## this.addContextDependency()

```ts
function addContextDependency(directory: string): void;
```

Add the directory as a dependency for the loader results so that any changes to the files in the directory can be listened to.

## this.addDependency()

```ts
function addDependency(file: string): void;
```

Add a file as a dependency on the loader results so that any changes to them can be listened to. For example, `sass-loader`, `less-loader` use this trick to recompile when the imported style files change.

## this.dependency()

```ts
function dependency(file: string): void;
```

Alias of `this.addDependency()`.

## this.addMissingDependency()

```ts
function addMissingDependency(file: string): void;
```

Add a non-existent file as a dependency on the loader results to make them listenable.

## this.async()

Tells Rspack that this loader will be called asynchronously. Returns `this.callback`.

## this.cacheable()

A function that sets the cacheable flag:

```ts
function cacheable(flag: boolean = true): void;
```

By default, the processing results of the loader are marked as cacheable. Calling this method and passing `false` turns off the loader's ability to cache processing results.

## this.callback()

```ts
function callback(
  err: Error | null,
  content: string | Buffer,
  sourceMap?: SourceMap,
  meta?: any,
): void;
```

A function that can be called synchronously or asynchronously in order to return multiple results. The expected arguments are:

1. The first parameter must be `Error` or `null`, which marks the current module as a compilation failure.
2. The second argument is a `string` or `Buffer`, which indicates the contents of the file after the module has been processed by the loader.
3. The third parameter is a source map that can be processed by the loader.
4. The fourth parameter is ignored by Rspack and can be anything (e.g. some metadata).

## this.clearDependencies()

```ts
function clearDependencies(): void;
```

Removes all dependencies of the loader result.

## this.context

The directory where the current module is located.

## this.data

A data object shared between the pitch and the normal phase.

## this.emitError()

```ts
function emitError(error: Error): void;
```

Emit an error. Unlike `throw` and `this.callback(err)` in the loader, it does not mark the current module as a compilation failure, it just adds an error to Rspack's Compilation and displays it on the command line at the end of this compilation.

## this.emitWarning(warning: Error)

```ts
function emitWarning(warning: Error): void;
```

Emit a warning.

## this.emitFile()

```ts
function emitFile(
  name: string,
  content: Buffer | string,
  sourceMap: SourceMap,
): void;
```

Emit a file.

## this.getOptions(schema)

Extracts the given loader option, accepting an optional JSON schema as an argument.

## this.getResolve()

```ts
function getResolve(options: ResolveOptions): resolve;
```

Create a resolver like `this.resolve`.

## this.resolve()

```ts
function resolve(
  context: string,
  request: string,
  callback: (err: Error | null, result: string) => void,
): void;
```

Resolve a request.

- `context` must be the absolute path to a directory. This directory is used as the starting location for resolving.
- `request` is the request to be resolved.
- `callback` is a callback function that gives the resolved path.

## this.mode

The value of [`mode`](/config/mode) is read when Rspack is run.

The possible values are: `'production'`, `'development'`, `'none'`

## this.target

The value of [`target`](/config/target) is read when Rspack is run.

## this.resource

The path string of the current module. For example `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.resourcePath

The path string of the current module, excluding the query and fragment parameters. For example `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'` in `'/abc/resource.js'`.

## this.resourceQuery

The query parameter for the path string of the current module. For example `'?query'` in `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.resourceFragment

The fragment parameter of the current module's path string. For example `'#hash'` in `'/abc/resource.js?query#hash'`.

## this.rootContext

The directory where the project is configured in config

## this.sourceMap

Whether a source map should be generated.

## this.getLogger()

```ts
function getLogger(name?: string): void;
```

Get the logger of this compilation, through which messages can be logged.
