website/docs/en/api/plugin-api/compilation-hooks.mdx, before:

# Compilation Hooks

## `buildModule`

`SyncHook<[JsModule]>`

Triggered before a module build has started, can be used to modify the module (Rspack currently only support reading the module, modifying is not supported yet).

## `processAssets`

`AsyncSeriesHook<[CompilationAssets]>`

Process the assets before emit.

## `optimizeModules`

`SyncBailHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called at the beginning of the module optimization phase. A plugin can tap into this hook to perform optimizations on modules.

## `optimizeChunkModule`

`AsyncSeriesBailHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called after the tree optimization, at the beginning of the chunk modules optimization. A plugin can tap into this hook to perform optimizations of chunk modules.

## `succeedModule`

`SyncHook<[JsModule]>`

Executed when a module has been built successfully.

## `finishModules`

`AsyncSeriesHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called when all modules have been built without errors.

## `chunkAsset`

`SyncHook<[JsChunk[], string /** filename*/ ]>`

Triggered when an asset from a chunk was added to the compilation.

Commit message:

feat(napi): compilation chunk hash hook (#6858)

website/docs/en/api/plugin-api/compilation-hooks.mdx, after:

# Compilation Hooks

## `buildModule`

`SyncHook<[JsModule]>`

Triggered before a module build has started, can be used to modify the module (Rspack currently only support reading the module, modifying is not supported yet).

## `processAssets`

`AsyncSeriesHook<[CompilationAssets]>`

Process the assets before emit.

## `optimizeModules`

`SyncBailHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called at the beginning of the module optimization phase. A plugin can tap into this hook to perform optimizations on modules.

## `optimizeChunkModule`

`AsyncSeriesBailHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called after the tree optimization, at the beginning of the chunk modules optimization. A plugin can tap into this hook to perform optimizations of chunk modules.

## `succeedModule`

`SyncHook<[JsModule]>`

Executed when a module has been built successfully.

## `finishModules`

`AsyncSeriesHook<[JsModule[]]>`

Called when all modules have been built without errors.

## `chunkHash`

`SyncHook<[JsChunk, Hash]>`

Triggered when calculating the chunk hash for a chunk.

## `chunkAsset`

`SyncHook<[JsChunk[], string /** filename*/ ]>`

Triggered when an asset from a chunk was added to the compilation.
