website/docs/en/guide/tech/css.mdx, before:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# CSS

CSS is a first-class citizen with Rspack. Rspack has the ability to handle CSS out-of-box, so additional configuration isn't required.

By default, files ending in `*.css` are treated as CSS types. Files ending in `*.module.css` are treated as [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules) module types.

If you're migrating from webpack, you can remove the `css-loader` or `style-loader` components from your configuration to use Rspack's built-in CSS processing capabilities, as described in [migration guide](/guide/migration/webpack#removing-css-loader-and-style-loader-and-mini-css-extract-plugin).

## CSS Modules

By default, Rspack treats files with a `*.module.css` extension as CSS Modules. You can import them into your JavaScript files, and then access each class defined in the CSS file as an export from the module.

```css title="index.module.css"
.red {
  color: red;
}
```

You can use namespace import:

```ts title="index.js"
import * as styles from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = styles.red;
```

You can also use named import:

```ts
import { red } from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = red;
```

To enable default imports in Rspack, you need to set `namedExports` to `false` in your `rspack.config.js` file. This allows you, when using CSS Modules, to import the entire style module by default import, in addition to namespace imports and named imports:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    parser: {
      'css/auto': {
        namedExports: false,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

Now you can use default import:

```js
import styles from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = styles.red;
```

For more on CSS Modules configuration, please refer to [module.parser.css](/config/module#moduleparsercss).

## PostCSS

Rspack supports [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add postcss postcss-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                // ...
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.css' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration will have all `*.css` files processed by [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader). The output will be passed to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Sass

Rspack supports [sass-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add sass-embedded sass-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(sass|scss)$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // using `modern-compiler` and `sass-embedded` together significantly improve build performance,
              // requires `sass-loader >= 14.2.1`
              api: 'modern-compiler',
              implementation: require.resolve('sass-embedded'),
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.(scss|sass)' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration runs all `*.sass` and `*.scss` files through the [sass-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader) and passes the resulting results to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Less

Rspack supports [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add less less-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
            options: {
              // ...
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.less' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration runs all `*.less` files through the [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) and passes the generated results to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Tailwind CSS

[Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) is a utility-first CSS framework packed with classes that can be composed to build any design, directly in your markup.

Installing Tailwind CSS as a PostCSS plugin is the most seamless way to integrate it with Rspack.

### Install Tailwind CSS

Please install [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/),[autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer),[postcss](https://postcss.org/) and [postcss-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/) in your project.

<PackageManagerTabs command="add tailwindcss autoprefixer postcss postcss-loader -D" />

### Configure Tailwind CSS

Once installed, you need to configure `postcss-loader` in `rspack.config.js` to handle CSS files, and then add `tailwindcss` to `postcssOptions.plugins`.

Here is an example configuration for handling `.css` files, if you need to handle `.scss` or `.less` files, you can refer to this example for modifications.

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                plugins: {
                  tailwindcss: {},
                  autoprefixer: {},
                },
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

At this point, you have completed the build configuration required to use Tailwind CSS in Rspack.

Next you can follow the steps in the [Tailwind CSS Documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/using-postcss) to add the required configuration and code for Tailwind CSS and start using it.

Commit message:

docs: use css-loader and experiments.css together

website/docs/en/guide/tech/css.mdx, after:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';

# CSS

CSS is a first-class citizen with Rspack. Rspack has the ability to handle CSS out-of-box, just need to set `experiments.css` to `true`.

By default, files ending in `*.css` are treated as `css/auto` module type, Files ending in `*.module.css` are treated as [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules).

You can also customize which modules are CSS modules by configuring `type: 'css/auto'`.

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        type: 'css/auto', // 👈
        use: ['less-loader'],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

If you're migrating from webpack, see [migration guide](/guide/migration/webpack#removing-css-loader-and-style-loader-and-mini-css-extract-plugin).

## CSS Modules

By default, Rspack treats files with a `*.module.css` extension as [CSS Modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules). You can import them into your JavaScript files, and then access each class defined in the CSS file as an export from the module.

```css title="index.module.css"
.red {
  color: red;
}
```

You can use namespace import:

```ts title="index.js"
import * as styles from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = styles.red;
```

You can also use named import:

```ts
import { red } from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = red;
```

To enable default imports in Rspack, you need to set `namedExports` to `false` in your `rspack.config.js` file. This allows you, when using CSS Modules, to import the entire style module by default import, in addition to namespace imports and named imports:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    parser: {
      'css/auto': {
        namedExports: false,
      },
    },
  },
};
```

Now you can use default import:

```js
import styles from './index.module.css';
document.getElementById('element').className = styles.red;
```

For more on CSS Modules configuration, please refer to [module.parser.css](/config/module#moduleparsercss).

## PostCSS

Rspack supports [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add postcss postcss-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                // ...
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.css' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration will have all `*.css` files processed by [postcss-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/postcss-loader). The output will be passed to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Sass

Rspack supports [sass-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add sass-embedded sass-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(sass|scss)$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'sass-loader',
            options: {
              // using `modern-compiler` and `sass-embedded` together significantly improve build performance,
              // requires `sass-loader >= 14.2.1`
              api: 'modern-compiler',
              implementation: require.resolve('sass-embedded'),
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.(scss|sass)' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration runs all `*.sass` and `*.scss` files through the [sass-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/sass-loader) and passes the resulting results to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Less

Rspack supports [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader), which you can configure like this:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add less less-loader -D" />

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.less$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'less-loader',
            options: {
              // ...
            },
          },
        ],
        // set to 'css/auto' if you want to support '*.module.less' as CSS Modules, otherwise set type to 'css'
        type: 'css/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

The above configuration runs all `*.less` files through the [less-loader](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/less-loader) and passes the generated results to Rspack for CSS post-processing.

## Tailwind CSS

[Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) is a utility-first CSS framework packed with classes that can be composed to build any design, directly in your markup.

Installing Tailwind CSS as a PostCSS plugin is the most seamless way to integrate it with Rspack.

### Install Tailwind CSS

Please install [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/),[autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer),[postcss](https://postcss.org/) and [postcss-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/) in your project.

<PackageManagerTabs command="add tailwindcss autoprefixer postcss postcss-loader -D" />

### Configure Tailwind CSS

Once installed, you need to configure `postcss-loader` in `rspack.config.js` to handle CSS files, and then add `tailwindcss` to `postcssOptions.plugins`.

Here is an example configuration for handling `.css` files, if you need to handle `.scss` or `.less` files, you can refer to this example for modifications.

```ts title="rspack.config.js"
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'postcss-loader',
            options: {
              postcssOptions: {
                plugins: {
                  tailwindcss: {},
                  autoprefixer: {},
                },
              },
            },
          },
        ],
        type: 'css',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

At this point, you have completed the build configuration required to use Tailwind CSS in Rspack.

Next you can follow the steps in the [Tailwind CSS Documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/using-postcss) to add the required configuration and code for Tailwind CSS and start using it.
