website/docs/en/guide/tech/preact.mdx, before:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';
import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '@components/ApiMeta.tsx';

# Preact

## How to Use

Rspack provides two solutions to support Preact:

- **Use Rsbuild**: Rsbuild provides out-of-the-box support for Preact, allowing you to quickly create a Preact project. See [Rsbuild - Preact](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/framework/preact) for details.
- **Manually configure Rspack**: You can refer to the current document to manually add configurations for Preact.

## Configure JSX/TSX

Rspack leverages SWC transformer for JSX/TSX.

Add `builtin:swc-loader` loader to support `jsx` and `tsx`:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
      {
        test: /\.tsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'typescript',
                tsx: true,
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Refer to [Builtin swc-loader](guide/features/builtin-swc-loader) for detailed configurations.

Refer to [examples/preact](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/main/rspack/preact/rspack.config.js) for the full example.

## Preact Refresh

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.7.3'} />

To enable Preact Refresh, the following steps are required:

- Add the `@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh` plugin to inject runtime code
- Add the loader for code transformation

### @rspack/plugin-preact-refresh

First you need to install the dependencies:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add @rspack/plugin-preact-refresh @prefresh/core @prefresh/utils -D" />

The enabling of the [Preact Refresh](https://github.com/preactjs/prefresh) is divided into two parts: code injection and code transformation

- Code injection: injects code that interacts with `@prefresh/core` and `@prefresh/utils`, which has been integrated in the [@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/tree/main/packages/rspack-plugin-preact-refresh) plugin
- Code transformation requires a loader
  - Use `builtin:swc-loader`
    - Enable `jsc.transform.react.refresh` to support common react transformation
    - Enable `rspackExperiments.preact` to support the specific transformation of preact
  - Use `babel-loader` and add official [babel plugin](https://github.com/preactjs/prefresh/tree/main/packages/babel) of prefresh.

```js title=rspack.config.js
const PreactRefreshPlugin = require('@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh');
const isDev = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development';

module.exports = {
  // ...
  mode: isDev ? 'development' : 'production',
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            rspackExperiments: {
              preact: {}, // enable preact specific transformation
            },
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
              transform: {
                react: {
                  development: isDev,
                  refresh: isDev, // enable common react transformation
                },
              },
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [isDev && new PreactRefreshPlugin()].filter(Boolean),
};
```

Refer to [examples/preact-refresh](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/main/rspack/preact-refresh/rspack.config.js) for the full example.

Commit message:

refactor!: use swc_plugin_prefresh instead of builtin swc plugin (#7069)

website/docs/en/guide/tech/preact.mdx, after:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme';
import { ApiMeta, Stability } from '@components/ApiMeta.tsx';

# Preact

## How to Use

Rspack provides two solutions to support Preact:

- **Use Rsbuild**: Rsbuild provides out-of-the-box support for Preact, allowing you to quickly create a Preact project. See [Rsbuild - Preact](https://rsbuild.dev/guide/framework/preact) for details.
- **Manually configure Rspack**: You can refer to the current document to manually add configurations for Preact.

## Configure JSX/TSX

Rspack leverages SWC transformer for JSX/TSX.

Add `builtin:swc-loader` loader to support `jsx` and `tsx`:

```js title=rspack.config.js
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
      {
        test: /\.tsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              parser: {
                syntax: 'typescript',
                tsx: true,
              },
            },
          },
        },
        type: 'javascript/auto',
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

Refer to [Builtin swc-loader](guide/features/builtin-swc-loader) for detailed configurations.

Refer to [examples/preact](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/main/rspack/preact/rspack.config.js) for the full example.

## Preact Refresh

<ApiMeta addedVersion={'0.7.3'} />

To enable Preact Refresh, the following steps are required:

- Add the `@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh` plugin to inject runtime code
- Add the loader for code transformation

### @rspack/plugin-preact-refresh

First you need to install the dependencies:

<PackageManagerTabs command="add @rspack/plugin-preact-refresh @prefresh/core @prefresh/utils -D" />

The enabling of the [Preact Refresh](https://github.com/preactjs/prefresh) is divided into two parts: code injection and code transformation

- Code injection: injects code that interacts with `@prefresh/core` and `@prefresh/utils`, which has been integrated in the [@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh](https://github.com/web-infra-dev/rspack/tree/main/packages/rspack-plugin-preact-refresh) plugin
- Code transformation requires a loader
  - Use `builtin:swc-loader` or [`swc-loader`](https://swc.rs/docs/usage/swc-loader)
    - Enable `jsc.transform.react.refresh` to support common react transformation
    - Add [`@swc/plugin-prefresh`](https://github.com/swc-project/plugins/tree/main/packages/prefresh) into `jsc.experimental.plugins` to support the specific transformation of preact
  - Use `babel-loader` and add official [babel plugin](https://github.com/preactjs/prefresh/tree/main/packages/babel) of prefresh.

:::warning
In versions below 1.0.0, Rspack did not support preact refresh with `swc-loader`.

Please use `builtin:swc-loader` and enable preact specific transformation with `rspackExperiments.preact: {}`
:::

```js title=rspack.config.js
const PreactRefreshPlugin = require('@rspack/plugin-preact-refresh');
const isDev = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development';

module.exports = {
  // ...
  mode: isDev ? 'development' : 'production',
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.jsx$/,
        use: {
          loader: 'builtin:swc-loader',
          options: {
            jsc: {
              experimental: {
                plugins: [
                  [
                    '@swc/plugin-prefresh', // enable prefresh specific transformation
                    {
                      library: ['preact-like-framework'], // the customizable preact name, default is `["preact", "preact/compat", "react"]`
                    },
                  ],
                ],
              },
              parser: {
                syntax: 'ecmascript',
                jsx: true,
              },
              transform: {
                react: {
                  development: isDev,
                  refresh: isDev, // enable common react transformation
                },
              },
            },
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [isDev && new PreactRefreshPlugin()].filter(Boolean),
};
```

Refer to [examples/preact-refresh](https://github.com/rspack-contrib/rspack-examples/blob/main/rspack/preact-refresh/rspack.config.js) for the full example.
